Politically Correct Bedtime Stories (The Politically Correct Storybook) (James Finn Garner) 
　LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD
　THE EMPEROR'S NEW CLOTHES
　THE THREE LITTLE PIGS
　RUMPELSTILTSKIN
　THE THREE CODEPENDENT GOATS GRUFF
　RAPUNZEL
　CINDERELLA
　GOLDILOCKS
　SNOW WHITE
　CHICKEN LITTLE
　THE FROG PRINCE
　JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
　THE PIED PIPER OF HAMELIN
　THE DUCKLING THAT WAS JUDGED ON ITS PERSUNAL MERITS AND NOT ON ITS PHYSICAL APPEARANCE
　A CHILD’S GARDEN OF POLITICAL CORRECTNESS
　A ROYAL REVENGE
　HONK HONK, MY DARLING: A “REX KOKO, PRIVATE CLOWN” MYSTERY
　About the Author








ÁÁÁÁÁÁÁÁÁÁ：doosho.com　1，2，3，4，5

ББББББББББ：doosho.com　1，2，3，4，5

ĆĆĆĆĆĆĆĆĆĆ：doosho.com　

ĎĎĎĎĎĎĎĎĎĎ：doosho.com　

ÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊ：doosho.com　

♀♀♀♀♀♀♀♀♀♀：doosho.com　

ĞĞĞĞĞĞĞĞĞĞ：doosho.com　

ĤĤĤĤĤĤĤĤĤĤ：doosho.com　

ĨĨĨĨĨĨĨĨĨĨ：doosho.com　

ĴĴĴĴĴĴĴĴĴĴ：doosho.com　

ЌЌЌЌЌЌЌЌЌЌ：doosho.com　

ĹĹĹĹĹĹĹĹĹĹ：doosho.com　

♂♂♂♂♂♂♂♂♂♂：doosho.com　

ŃŃŃŃŃŃŃŃŃŃ：doosho.com　

ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ：doosho.com　

φφφφφφφφφφ：doosho.com　

ℚℚℚℚℚℚℚℚℚℚ：doosho.com　

ŔŔŔŔŔŔŔŔŔŔ：doosho.com　

ŚŚŚŚŚŚŚŚŚŚ：doosho.com　

ŤŤŤŤŤŤŤŤŤŤ：doosho.com　

ÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚ：doosho.com　

≚≚≚≚≚≚≚≚≚≚：doosho.com　

ŴŴŴŴŴŴŴŴŴŴ：doosho.com　

ϰϰϰϰϰϰϰϰϰϰ：doosho.com　

ÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ：doosho.com　

ŹŹŹŹŹŹŹŹŹŹ：doosho.com　








Politically Correct Bedtime Stories (The Politically Correct Storybook) (James Finn Garner) 







POLITICALLY CORRECT BEDTIME STORIES

Modern Tales for Our Life and Times



By James Finn Garner





This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.





Copyright 1994 by James Finn Garner. E-book version copyright 2010 by James Finn Garner.





All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from the author.





An excerpt originally appeared in Playboy magazine.





“A Royal Revenge” was originally broadcast by the British Broadcasting Corporation in 2002.





Cover art by Carter Goodrich.





ISBN 0-02-542730-X





To the Theater of the Bizarre, including Pepe, Armando, Egon, Ted, Matteo, Nick, and Julietta; James Ghelkins, Jr., and Willie; Smitty and Jocko of the Teamsters Children’s Puppet Theater; and others too numerous to mention.



To Carol, for help and encouragement;



And to Lies, for everything.








INTRODUCTION




When they were first written, the stories on which the following tales are based certainly served their purpose — to entrench the patriarchy, to estrange people from their own natural impulses, to demonize “evil” and to “reward” an “objective” “good”. However much we might like to, we cannot blame the Brothers Grimm for their insensitivity to womyn’s issues, minority cultures, and the environment. Likewise, in the self-righteous Copenhagen of Hans Christian Andersen, the inalienable rights of mermaids were hardly given a second thought.

Today, we have the opportunity — and the obligation — to rethink these “classic” stories so they reflect more enlightened times. To that effort I submit this humble book. While its original title, Fairy Stories for a Modern World, was abandoned for obvious reasons (kudos to my editor for pointing out my heterosexualist bias), I think the collection stands on its own.

This, however, is just the start. The good news about this new e-book edition is that I finally have enough space to include the long-supressed story, “The Duckling That Was Judged on Its Persunal Merits and Not on Its Physical Appearance.” I expect I have volumes left in me, and I hope this book sparks the righteous imaginations of other writers and, of course, leaves an indelible mark on our children.

If, through omission or commission, I have inadvertently displayed any sexist, racist, culturalist, nationalist, regionalist, ageist, lookist, ableist, sizeist, speciesist, intellectualist, socioeconomicist, ethnocentrist, phallocentrist, heteropatriarchalist, or other bias as yet unnamed, I apologize and encourage your suggestions for rectification. In the quest to develop meaningful literature that is totally free from bias and purged from the influences of its flawed cultural past, I doubtless have made some mistakes.





LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD




There once was a young person named Red Riding Hood who lived with her mother on the edge of a large wood. One day her mother asked her to take a basket of fresh fruit and mineral water to her grandmother's house--not because this was womyn's work, mind you, but because the deed was generous and helped engender a feeling of community. Furthermore, her grandmother was not sick, but rather was in full physical and mental health and was fully capable of taking care of herself as a mature adult.

So Red Riding Hood set off with her basket through the woods. Many people believed that the forest was a foreboding and dangerous place and never set foot in it. Red Riding Hood, however, was confident enough in her own budding sexuality that such obvious Freudian imagery did not intimidate her.

On the way to Grandma's house, Red Riding Hood was accosted by a wolf, who asked her what was in her basket. She replied, "Some healthful snacks for my grandmother, who is certainly capable of taking care of herself as a mature adult."

The wolf said, "You know, my dear, it isn't safe for a little girl to walk through these woods alone."

Red Riding Hood said, "I find your sexist remark offensive in the extreme, but I will ignore it because of your traditional status as an outcast from society, the stress of which has caused you to develop your own, entirely valid, worldview. Now, if you'll excuse me, I must be on my way."

Red Riding Hood walked on along the main path. But, because his status outside society had freed him from slavish adherence to linear, Western-style thought, the wolf knew a quicker route to Grandma's house. He burst into the house and ate Grandma, an entirely valid course of action for a carnivore such as himself. Then, unhampered by rigid, traditionalist notions of what was masculine or feminine, he put on Grandma's nightclothes and crawled into bed.

Red Riding Hood entered the cottage and said, "Grandma, I have brought you some fat-free, sodium-free snacks to salute you in your role of a wise and nurturing matriarch."

From the bed, the wolf said softly, "Come closer, child, so that I might see you."

Red Riding Hood said, "Oh, I forgot you are as optically challenged as a bat. Grandma, what big eyes you have!"

"They have seen much, and forgiven much, my dear."

"Grandma, what a big nose you have--only relatively, of course, and certainly attractive in its own way."

"It has smelled much, and forgiven much, my dear."

"Grandma, what big teeth you have!"

The wolf said, "I am happy with who I am and what I am," and leaped out of bed. He grabbed Red Riding Hood in his claws, intent on devouring her. Red Riding Hood screamed, not out of alarm at the wolf's apparent tendency toward cross-dressing, but because of his willful invasion of her personal space.

Her screams were heard by a passing woodchopper-person (or log-fuel technician, as he preferred to be called). When he burst into the cottage, he saw the melee and tried to intervene. But as he raised his ax, Red Riding Hood and the wolf both stopped.

"And just what do you think you're doing?" asked Red Riding Hood.

The woodchopper-person blinked and tried to answer, but no words came to him.

"Bursting in here like a Neanderthal, trusting your weapon to do your thinking for you!" she exclaimed. "Sexist! Speciesist! How dare you assume that womyn and wolves can't solve their own problems without a man's help!"

When she heard Red Riding Hood's impassioned speech, Grandma jumped out of the wolf's mouth, seized the woodchopper-person's ax, and cut his head off. After this ordeal, Red Riding Hood, Grandma, and the wolf felt a certain commonality of purpose. They decided to set up an alternative household based on mutual respect and cooperation, and they lived together in the woods happily ever after.





THE EMPEROR'S NEW CLOTHES




Far away in a time long past, there lived a traveling tailor who found himself in an unfamiliar country. Now, tailors who move from place to place normally keep to themselves and are careful not to overstep the bounds of local decency. This tailor, though, was overly gregarious and decorum-impaired, and soon he was at a local inn, abusing alcohol, invading the personal space of the female employees, and telling unenlightened stories about tinkers, dung-gatherers, and other tradespeople.

The innkeeper complained to the police, who grabbed the tailor and dragged him in front of the emperor. As you might expect, a lifetime of belief in the absolute legitimacy of the monarchy and in the inherent superiority of males had turned the emperor into a vain and wisdom-challenged tyrant. The tailor noticed these traits and decided to use them to his advantage.

The emperor asked, "Do you have any last request before I banish you from my domain forever?"

The tailor replied, “Only that your majesty allow me the honor of crafting a new royal wardrobe. For I have brought with me a special fabric that is so rare and fine that it can only be seen by certain people — the type of people you'd want to have in your realm — people who are politically correct, morally righteous, intellectually astute, culturally tolerant, and who don't smoke, drink, laugh at sexist jokes, watch too much television, listen to country music, or barbecue."

After a moment's thought, the emperor agreed to this request. He was flattered by the fascist and testosterone-heavy idea that the empire and its inhabitants existed only to make him look good. It would be like having a trophy wife and multiplying that feeling by 100,000.

Of course, no such rarefied fabric existed. Years of living outside the bounds of normal society had forced the tailor to develop his own moral code that obliged him to swindle and embarrass the emperor in the name of independent craftspeople everywhere. So, as he diligently labored, he was able to convince the emperor that he was cutting and sewing pieces of fabric that, in the strictest objective sense of reality, didn't exist.

When the tailor announced that he was finished, the emperor looked at his new robes in the mirror. As he stood there, naked as the day he was born, one could see how years of exploiting the peasantry had turned his body into an ugly mass of puffy white flesh. The emperor, of course, saw this too, but pretended that he could see the beautiful, politically correct robes. To show off his new splendor, he ordered a parade to be held the next day.

On the following morning, his subjects lined the streets for the big parade. Word had spread about the emperor's new clothes that only enlightened people with healthy lifestyles could see, and everyone was determined to be more right-minded than his or her neighbor.

The parade began with great hoopla. As the emperor marched his pale, bloated, patriarchal carcass down the street, everyone loudly oohed and ahed at his beautiful new clothes. All except one small boy, who shouted:

"The emperor is naked!"

The parade stopped. The emperor paused. A hush fell over the crowd, until one of quick-thinking peasant shouted:

"No he isn't! The emperor is merely endorsing a clothing-optional lifestyle!"

A cheer went up from the crowd, and the throngs stripped off their clothes and danced in the sun, as Nature had intended. The country was clothing-optional from that day forward, and the tailor, deprived of any livelihood, packed up his needle and thread and was never heard from again.





THE THREE LITTLE PIGS




Once there were three little pigs who lived together in mutual respect and in harmony with their environment. Using materials that were indigenous to the area they each built a beautiful house. One pig built a house of straw, one a house of sticks, and one a house of dung, clay and creeper vines shaped into bricks and baked in a small kiln. When they were finished, the pigs were satisfied with their work and settled back to live in peace and self-determination.

But their idyll was soon shattered. One day, along came a big, bad wolf with expansionist ideas. He saw the pigs and grew very hungry in both a physical and ideological sense. When the pigs saw the wolf, they ran into the house of straw. The wolf ran up to the house and banged on the door, shouting, "Little pigs, little pigs, let me in!"

The pigs shouted back, "Your gunboat tactics hold no fear for pigs defending their homes and culture."

But the wolf wasn't to be denied what he thought was his manifest destiny. So he huffed and puffed and blew down the house of straw. The frightened pigs ran to the house of sticks, with the wolf in hot pursuit. Where the house had stood, other wolves bought up the land and started a banana plantation.

At the house of sticks, the wolf again banged on the door and shouted, "Little, pigs, little pigs, let me in!"

The pigs shouted back, "Go to hell, you carnivorous, imperialistic oppressor!"

At this the wolf chuckled condescendingly. He thought to himself: “They are so childlike in their ways. It will be a shame to see them go, but progress cannot be stopped.”

So the wolf huffed and puffed and blew down the house of sticks. The pigs ran to the house of bricks, with the wolf close at their heels. Where the house of sticks had stood, other wolves built a time-share condo resort complex for vacationing wolves, with each unit a fiberglass reconstruction of the house of sticks, as well as native curio shops, snorkeling and dolphin shows.

At the house of bricks, the wolf again banged on the door and shouted, "Little pigs, little pigs, let me in!"

This time in response, the pigs sang songs of solidarity and wrote letters of protest to the United Nations.

By now the wolf was getting angry at the pigs' refusal to see the situation from the carnivore's point of view. So he huffed and puffed, and huffed and puffed, then grabbed his chest and fell over dead from a massive heart attack brought on from eating too many fatty foods.

The three little pigs rejoiced that justice had triumphed and did a little dance around the corpse of the wolf. Their next step was to liberate their homeland. They gathered together a band of other pigs who had been forced off their lands. This new brigade of porcinistas attacked the resort complex with machine guns and rocket launchers and slaughtered the cruel wolf oppressors, sending a clear signal to the rest of the hemisphere not to meddle in their internal affairs. Then the pigs set up a model socialist democracy with free education, universal health care and affordable housing for everyone.

Please note: The wolf in this story was a metaphorical construct. No actual wolves were harmed in the writing of the story.





RUMPELSTILTSKIN




Long ago in a kingdom far away, there lived a miller who was very economically disadvantaged. This miller shared his humble dwelling with his only daughter, an independent young wommon named Esmeralda. Now, the miller was very ashamed of his poverty, rather than angry at the economic system that had marginalized him, and was always searching for a way to get rich quick.

"If only I could get my daughter to marry a rich man," he mused, in a sexist and archaic way, "she'll be fulfilled and I'll never have to work another day in my life." To this shabby end, he had an inspiration. He would start a rumor that his daughter was able to spin common barnyard straw into pure gold. With this untruth, he would be able to attract the attention of many rich men and marry off Esmeralda.

The rumor spread through the kingdom in a manner that just happened to be like wildfire and soon reached the prince. As greedy and gullible as most men of his station, he believed the rumor and invited Esmeralda to his castle for a May Day festival. But when she arrived, he had her thrown into a dungeon filled with straw and ordered her to spin it into gold.

Locked in the dungeon, fearing for her life, Esmeralda sat on the floor and wept. Never had the exploitativeness of the patriarchy been made so apparent to her. As she cried, a diminutive man in a funny hat appeared in the dungeon.

"Why are you crying, my dear?" he asked.

Esmeralda was startled but answered him: "The prince has ordered me to spin all this straw into gold."

"But why are you crying?" he asked again.

"Because it can't be done. What are you, specially abled or something?"

The differently statured man laughed and said, "Dearie, you are thinking too much with the left side of your brain, you are. But you are in luck. I will show you how to perform the task, yes, but first you must promise to give me what I want in return."

With no alternative, Esmeralda gave her ascent. To turn the straw into gold, they took it to a nearby farmers' cooperative, where it was used to thatch an old roof. With a drier home, the farmers became healthier and more productive, and they brought forth a record harvest of wheat for local consumption. The children of the kingdom grew strong and tall, went to a cooperative school, and gradually turned the kingdom into a model democracy with no economic or sexual injustice and low infant mortality rates. For his part, the prince was captured by angry mob and stabbed to death with pitchforks outside the palace. As new investment money poured in from all over the world, the farmers remembered Esmeralda's generous gift of straw and rewarded her with numerous chests of gold.

When all this was done, the diminutive man in the funny hat laughed and said, "That is how you turn straw into gold." Then his expression became menacing. "Now that I have done my work, you must fulfill your part of the bargain. You must give me your first born child!"

Esmeralda shot back at him, "I don't have to negotiate with anyone who would interfere with my reproductive rights!"

The vertically challenged man was taken aback by the conviction in her voice. Deciding on a change in tactics, he said slyly, "Fair enough, dearie. I'll let you out of the bargain if you can guess what my name is."

"All right," said Esmeralda. She paused a second, tapped her chin with her finger, and said, "Would your name be . . . Oh, I don't know, maybe . . . Rumpelstiltskin?"

"AAAAAAKKKKK!" shrieked the man of nonstandard height. "But . . . but . . . how did you know?"

She replied, "You are still wearing your name badge from Little People's Empowerment Seminar."

Rumpelstiltskin screamed in anger and stamped his foot, at which point the earth cracked open and swallowed him up in a rush of smoke and sulphur. With her gold, Esmeralda moved to California to open a birth-control clinic, where she showed other womyn how not to be enslaved by their reproductive systems and lived to the end of her days as a fulfilled, dedicated single person.





THE THREE CODEPENDENT GOATS GRUFF




Once on a lovely mountainside lived three goats who were related as siblings. Their name was Gruff, and they were a very close family. During the winter months they lived in a lush, green valley, eating grass and doing other things in a naturally goatish manner. When summer came, they would travel up the mountainside to where the pasture grass was sweeter. This way, they did not overgraze their valley and kept their ecological footprint as small as possible.

To get to this pasture, the goats had to cross a bridge over a wide chasm. When the first days of summer came, one goat set out to cross the bridge. This goat was the least chronologically accomplished of the siblings and thus had achieved the least superiority in size. When he reached the bridge, he lashed on his safety helmet and grasped the handrail. But as he began to cross, a menacing growl came from beneath the bridge.

Over the railing and onto the bridge leaped a troll — hairy, dirt-accomplished, and odor-enhanced. “Yaaarrrgh!!” intoned the troll. “I am the keeper of this bridge, and while goats may have the right to cross it, I’ll eat any that try.”

“But why, Mr. Troll?” bleated the goat.

“Because I’m a troll, and proud of it. I have a troll’s needs, and those needs include eating goats, so you better respect them or else.”

The goat was frightened. “Certainly, sir,” he stammered. “If eating me would help you become a more complete troll, nothing would please me more. But I really can’t commit to that course of action without first consulting my siblings. Will you excuse me?” And the goat ran back to the valley.

Next, the middle sibling goat came up to the bridge. This goat was more chronologically advanced that the first goat and so enjoyed an advantage of size (though this did not make him a better or more deserving goat). He was about to cross the bridge when the troll stopped him.

“Nature has made me a troll,” he said, “and I embrace my trollhood. Would you deny me my right to live the life of a troll as fully and effectively as I can?”

“Me? Never!” exclaimed the goat proudly.

“Then stand still there while I come over and eat you up. And don’t try to run away; I would take that as a personal affront.” He began to invade the goat’s caprinal space.

“However,” blurted the goat, “I have a very close family, and it would be selfish of me to allow myself to be eaten without asking their opinion. I have respect for their feelings, too. I would hate to think that my absence would cause them any emotional stress, if I hadn’t first…”

“Go then!” screamed the troll.

“I’ll rush back here as soon as we reach a consensus,” the goat said, “for it’s not fair to keep you in suspense.”

“You’re too kind,” sighed the troll, and the goat ran back to the valley. As his hunger grew, the troll began to feel a real grievance toward the goats. If he didn’t get to eat at least one of them, he was determined to go to the authorities.

When the third goat came to the bridge, the troll discovered that he was nearly twice the troll’s size, with large, sharp horns, and hard, heavy hooves. The troll felt his physical-intimidation prerogative fading fast. As fear turned his insides into jelly, the troll sank to his knees and pleaded, “Oh, please, please forgive me! I was using you and your goat siblings for my own selfish ends. I don’t know what drove me to it, but I’ve seen the error of my ways.”

The goat, too, got down on what passed for knees in goats and said, “Now, now, you can’t take all the blame for yourself. Our presence and supreme edibility put you in this situation. My siblings and I all feel terrible. Please, you must forgive us.”

The troll began to sob. “No, no, it’s all my fault. I threatened and bullied you all, just for the sake of my own survival. How selfish I was.”

But the goat would have none of this. “We were the selfish ones. We only wanted to save our own skins, and we totally neglected your needs. Please, eat me now!”

“No,” the troll said, “you must butt me off this bridge for my insensitivity and selfishness.”

“I’ll do no such thing,” said the goat, “since we all tempted you in the first place. Here, have a chomp. Go ahead.”

“I’m telling you,” the troll insisted, standing up, “I’m the guilty one here. Now, knock me off this bridge and be quick about it!”

“Look,” said the goat, rearing to his full height, “no one is going to take away my blame for this, not even you, so eat me before I pop you in the nose.”

“Don’t play guiltier-than-thou with me, Hornhead!”

“’Hornhead’? You smelly hairball! I’ll show you guilt!” And with that, they wrestled and bit and punched and kicked as each sought to don the mantle of blame.

The other two goats bounded up to the bridge and sized up the fight. Feeling guilty at not accepting enough of the blame, they joined the others in a whirling ball of hair, hooves, horns, and teeth. But the little bridge was not built to carry such weight. It shook and swayed and finally buckled, hurling the troll and the three codependent goats Gruff into the chasm. On their way down, they each felt relieved that they would finally get what they deserved, plus, as a bonus, a little extra guilt for the fate of the others.





RAPUNZEL




There once lived an economically disadvantaged tinker and his wife. His lack of material accomplishment is not meant to imply that all tinkers are economically marginalized, or if they are, they deserve to be so. While the archetype of the tinker is generally the whipping person in classical bedtime stories, this particular individual was a tinker by trade and just happened to be economically disadvantaged.

The tinker and his wife lived in a little hovel next to the modest estate of a local witch. From their window, they could see the witch's meticulously kept garden, a nauseating attempt to impose human notions of order onto Nature.

The wife of the tinker was pregnant, and as she gazed at the witch's garden, she began to crave some of the lettuce she saw growing there. She begged the tinker to jump the fence and get some for her. The tinker finally submitted, and at night he jumped the wall and liberated some of the lettuce. But before he could get back, the witch caught him.

Now, this witch was very kindness-impaired. (This is not meant to imply that all, or even some, witches are that way, nor to deny this particular witch her right to express whatever disposition came naturally to her. Far from it, her disposition was without doubt due to many factors of her upbringing and socialization, which, unfortunately, must be omitted here in the interest of brevity).

As mentioned earlier, the witch was kindness-impaired, and the tinker was extremely frightened. She held him by the scruff of the neck and asked, "Where are you going with my lettuce?"

The tinker might have argued with her over the concept of ownership and stated that the lettuce rightfully "belonged" to anyone who was hungry and had nerve enough to take it. Instead, in a degrading spectacle, he pleaded for mercy. "It was my wife's fault," he cried in a characteristically male manner. "She is pregnant and has a craving for some of your lovely lettuce. Please spare me. Although a single-parent household is certainly acceptable, please don't kill me and deprive my child of a stable, two-parent family structure."

The witch thought for a moment, then let go of the tinker's neck and disappeared without a word. The tinker gratefully went home with the lettuce. A few months later, and after agonizing pain that a man will never really be able to appreciate, the tinker's wife gave birth to a beautiful, healthy prewommon. They named the baby Rapunzel, after a type of lettuce.

Not long after this, the witch appeared at their door, demanding that they give her the child in return for the witch's having spared the tinker's life in the garden. What could they do? Their powerless station in life had always left them open to exploitation, and this time they felt that they had no alternative. They gave Rapunzel to the witch, who sped away.

The witch took the child deep into the woods and imprisoned her in a tall tower, the symbolism of which should be obvious. There Rapunzel grew to wommonhood. The tower had no door or stairs, but it did boast a single window at the top. The only way for anyone to get to the window was for Rapunzel to let down her long, luxurious hair and climb it to the top, the symbolism of which should also be obvious.

The witch was Rapunzel's only companion. She would stand at the foot of the tower and shout,

"Rapunzel, Rapunzel, let down your hair,

“That I may climb your golden stair."

Rapunzel obediently did as she was told. Thus for years she let her body be exploited for the transportational needs of another. The witch loved music and taught Rapunzel to sing. They passed many long hours singing together in the tower.

One day a young prince rode near the tower and heard Rapunzel singing. But as he rode closer to find the source of the lovely sound, he spied the witch and hid himself and his equine companion in the trees. He watched as the witch called out to Rapunzel, the hair fell down, and the witch climbed up. Again, he heard the beautiful singing. Later, when the witch finally exited the tower and disappeared in the other direction, the prince came out of the woods and called up.

"Rapunzel, Rapunzel, let down your hair,

“That I may climb your golden stair."

The hair cascaded from the window, and he climbed up.

When the prince saw Rapunzel, her greater-than-average physical attractiveness and her long, luxurious hair led him to think, in a typically lookist way, that her personality would also be beautiful. (This is not to imply that all princes judge people solely on their appearance, nor to deny this particular prince his right to make such assumptions. Please see the disclaimers in the paragraphs above.)

The prince said, "Oh, beautiful damsel, I heard you singing as I rode by on my horse. Please sing for me again."

Rapunzel did not know what to make of this person, since she had never seen a man up close before. He seemed like a strange creature -- large, hairy in the face, and possessing a strong, musky odor. For reasons she could not explain, Rapunzel found this combination somewhat attractive and opened her mouth to sing.

"Stop it right there!" screamed a voice from the window. The witch had returned!

"How...how did you get up here?" asked Rapunzel.

"I had an extra set of hair made, in case of emergency," said the witch matter-of-factly. "And this certainly looks like one. Listen to me, Prince! I built this tower to keep Rapunzel away from men like you. I taught her to sing, training her voice for years. She'll stay here and sing for no one but me, because I am the only one who truly loves her.”

"We can talk about your codependency problems later,” said the prince. "But first let me hear...Rapunzel, is it?...let me hear Rapunzel sing.”

"NO!" screamed the witch, "I'm going to throw you from the tower into the thorn-of-color bushes below so that your eyes will be gouged out and you'll wander the countryside cursing your bad luck for the rest of your life!"

"You may want to reconsider that,” said the prince. "I have some friends in the recording industry, you see, who would be very interested in... Rapunzel, wasn't it? Different, kind of catchy, I suppose….”

"I knew it! You want to take her from me!"

"No, no, I want you to continue to train her, to nurture her...as her manager," said the prince. "Then, when the time is right, say, a week or two, you can unleash her talent on the world and we can all rake in the cash."

The witch paused for a second to think about this, and her demeanor visibly softened. She and the prince began to discuss record contracts and video deals, as well as possible marketing ideas, including life-like Rapunzel™ dolls with their very own miniature stereo Tune-Towers™.

As Rapunzel watched, her suspicions turned into revulsion. For years, her hair had been exploited for the transportational needs of others. Now, they wanted to exploit her voice as well. "So, rapaciousness does not depend solely on gender," she realized with a sigh.

Rapunzel edged her way to the window without being seen. She stepped out and climbed down the second set of hair to the prince's waiting horse. She dislodged the hair and took it with her as she rode off, leaving the witch and the prince to argue about royalties and percentages in their phallus-shaped tower.

Rapunzel rode to the city and rented a room in a building that had real stairs. She later established the non-profit Foundation for the Free Proliferation of Music and cut off her hair for a fund-raising auction. She sang for free in coffee houses and art galleries for the rest of her days, always refusing to exploit for money other people's desire to hear her sing.





CINDERELLA



There once lived a young wommon named Cinderella, whose natural birthmother had died when Cinderella was but a child. A few years after, her father married a widow with two older daughters. Cinderella’s mother-of-step treated her very cruelly, and her sisters-of-step made her work very hard, as if she were their own personal unpaid laborer.

One day an invitation arrived at their house. The prince was celebrating his exploitation of the dispossessed and marginalized peasantry by throwing a fancy dress ball. Cinderella’s sisters-of-step were very excited to be invited to the palace. They began to plan the expensive clothes they would use to alter and enslave their natural body images to emulate an unrealistic standard of feminine beauty. (It was especially unrealistic in their case, as they were differently visaged enough to stop a clock.) Her mother-of-step also planned to go to the ball, so Cinderella was working harder than a dog (an appropriate if unfortunately speciesist metaphor).

When the day of the ball arrived, Cinderella helped her mother- and sisters-of-step into their ball gowns. A formidable task: It was like trying to force ten pounds of processed nonhuman animal carcasses into a five-pound skin. Next came immense cosmetic augmentation, which it would be best not to describe at all. As evening fell, her mother- and sisters-of-step left Cinderella at home to finish her housework. Cinderella was sad, but she contented herself with her Holly Near records.

Suddenly there was a flash of light, and in front of Cinderella stood a man dressed in loose-fitting, all-cotton clothes and wearing a wide-brimmed hat. At first Cinderella thought he was a Southern lawyer or a bandleader, but he soon put her straight.

"Hello, Cinderella, I am you fairy godperson, or individual deity proxy, if you prefer. So, you want go to the ball, eh? And bind yourself in the male concept of beauty? Squeeze into some tight-fitting dress that will cut off your circulation? Jam your feet into high-heeled shoes that will ruin your bone structure? Paint your face with chemicals and make-up that have been tested on nonhuman animals?”

“Oh yes, definitely!” she said in an instant. Her fairy godperson heaved a great sigh and decided to put off her political education till another day. With his magic, he enveloped her in a beautiful, bright light and whisked her away to the palace.

Many, many carriages were lined up outside the palace that night; apparently, no one had ever thought of carpooling. Soon, in a heavy, gilded carriage painfully pulled by a team of horse-slaves, Cinderella arrived. She was dressed in a clinging gown woven of silk stolen from unsuspecting silk-worms. Her hair was festooned with pearls plundered from hard-working, defenseless oysters. And on her feet, dangerous though it may seem, she wore slippers made of finely cut crystal.

Every head in the ballroom turned as Cinderella entered. The men stared at and lusted after this wommon who had captured perfectly their Barbie-doll ideas of feminine desirability. The womyn, trained at an early age to despise their own bodies, looked at Cinderella with envy and spite. Cinderella’s own mother- and sisters-of-step, consumed with jealousy, failed to recognize her.

Cinderella soon caught the roving eye of the prince, who was busy discussing jousting and bear-baiting with his cronies. Upon seeing her, the prince was struck with a fit of not being able to speak as well as the majority of the population. “Here,” he thought, “is a wommon that I could make my princess and impregnate with the progeny of our perfect genes, and thus make myself the envy of every other prince for miles around. And she’s blond, too!”

The prince began to cross the ballroom toward his intended prey. His cronies also began to walk toward Cinderella. So did every other male in the ballroom who was younger than 70 and not serving drinks.

Cinderella was proud of the commotion she was causing. She walked with head high and carried herself like a wommon of eminent social standing. But soon it became clear that the commotion was turning into something ugly, or at least socially dysfunctional.

The prince had made it clear to his friends that he was intent on “possessing” the young wommon. But the prince’s resoluteness angered his pals, for they too lusted after her and wanted to own her. The men began to shout and push each other. The prince’s best friend, who was a large if cerebrally constrained duke, stopped him halfway across the dance floor and insisted that he was going to have Cinderella. The prince’s response was a swift kick to the groin, which left the duke temporarily inactive. But the prince was quickly seized by other sex-crazed males, and he disappeared into a pile of human animals.

The womyn were appalled by this vicious display of testosterone, but try as they might, they were unable to separate the combatant. To the other womyn, it seemed that Cinderella was the cause of all the trouble, so they encircled her and began to display very unsisterly hostility. She tried to escape but her impractical glass slippers made it nearly impossible. Fortunately for her, none of the other womyn were shod any better.

The noise grew so loud that no one heard the clock in the tower chime midnight. When the bell rang the twelfth time, Cinderella’s beautiful gown and slippers disappeared, and she was dressed once again in her peasant’s rags. Her mother- and sisters-of-step recognized her now, but kept quiet to avoid embarrassment.

The womyn grew silent at this magical transformation. Freed from the confinements of her gown and slippers, Cinderella sighed and stretched and scratched her ribs. She smiled, closed her eyes and said, “Kill me now if you want, sisters, but at least I’ll die in comfort.”

The womyn around her again grew envious, but this time they took a different approach: Instead of exacting vengeance on her, they stripped off their bodices, corsets, shoes, and every other confining garment. They danced and jumped and screeched in sheer joy, comfortable at last in their shifts and bare feet.

Had the men looked up from their macho dance of destruction, they would have seen many desirable womyn dressed as if for the boudoir. But they never ceased pounding, punching, kicking, and clawing each other until, to the last man, they were dead.

The womyn clucked their tongues but felt no remorse. The palace and realm were theirs now. Their first official act was to dress the men in their discarded dresses and tell the media that the fight arose when someone threatened to expose the cross-dressing tendencies of the prince and his cronies. Their second was to set up a clothing co-op that produced only comfortable, practical clothes for womyn. Then they hung a sign on the castle advertising CinderWear (for that was what the new clothing was called), and through self-determination and clever marketing, they all — even the mother – and sisters-of-step — lived happily ever after.





GOLDILOCKS




Through the thicket, across the river, and deep, deep in the woods, lived a family of bears — a Papa Bear, a Mama Bear and a Baby Bear — and they all lived together anthropomorphically in a little cottage as a nuclear family.They were very sorry about this, of course, since the nuclear family has traditionally served to enslave women, instill a self-righteous moralism in its members, and imprint rigid notions of heterosexualist roles onto the next generation. Nevertheless, they tried to be happy and took steps to avoid these pitfalls, such as naming their offspring the non-gender-specific “Baby”

One day, in their little anthropomorphic cottage, they sat down to breakfast. Papa Bear had prepared big bowls of all-natural porridge for them to eat. But straight off the stove, the porridge was too thermally enhanced to eat. So they left their bowls to cool and took a walk to visit their animal neighbors.

After the bears had left, a melanin-impoverished young woman emerged from the bushes and crept up to the cottage. Her name was Goldilocks, and she had been watching the bears for days. She was, you see, a biologist who specialized in the study of anthropomorphic bears. At one time she had been a professor, but her aggressive, masculine approach to science — ripping off the thin veil of Nature, exposing its secrets, penetrating its essence, using it for her own selfish needs, and bragging about such violations in the letters columns of various magazines — had led to her dismissal.

The rogue biologist had been watching the cottage for some time. Her intent was to collar the bears with radio transmitters and then follow in their migratory and other life patterns, with an utter disregard for their personal (or rather, animal) privacy. With scientific espionage the only thing on her mind, Goldilocks broke into the bears’ cottage. In the kitchen she laced the bowls of porridge with a tranquillizing potion. Then, in the bedroom, she rigged snares beneath the pillows of each bed. Her plan was to drug the bears and, when they stumbled into their bedroom to take a nap, lash radio collars to their necks as their heads hit the pillows.

Goldilocks chortled and thought, “These bears will be my ticket to the top! I’ll show those twerps at the university the kind of guts it takes to do real research!” She crouched in a corner of the bedroom and waited. And waited, and waited some more. But the bears took so long to come back from their walk that she fell asleep.

When the bears finally came home, they sat down to eat breakfast. Then they stopped.

Papa Bear asked, “Does your porridge smell…off, Mama?”

Mama Bear replied, “Yes, it does. Does yours smell off, Baby?”

Baby Bear replied, “Yes, it does. It smells kind of chemical-y”

Suspicious, they rose from the table and went into the living room. Papa Bear sniffed. He asked, “Do you smell something else, Mama?”

Mama Bear replied, “Yes, I do. Do you smell something else, Baby?”

Baby Bear replied, “Yes, I do. It smells musky and sweaty and not at all clean.”

They moved into the bedroom with growing alarm. Papa Bear asked, “Do you see a snare and a radio collar under my pillow, Mama?”

Mama Bear replied, “Yes I do. Do you see a snare and a radio collar under my pillow, Baby?”

Baby Bear said, “Yes, I do, and I see the human who put them there!”

Baby Bear pointed to the corner where Goldilocks slept. The bears growled, and Goldilocks awoke with a start. She sprang up and tried to run, but Papa Bear caught her with a swing of his paw, and Mama Bear did the same. With Goldilocks now a mobility nonpossessor, Mama and Papa Bear set on her with fang and claw. They gobbled her up, and soon there was nothing left of the maverick biologist but a bit of yellow hair and a clipboard.

Baby Bear watched with astonishment. When they were done, Baby Bear asked, “Mama, Papa, what have you done? I thought we were vegetarians.”

Papa Bear burped. “We are,” he said, “but we’re always ready to try new things. Flexibility is just one more benefit of being multicultural.”





SNOW WHITE




Once there was a young princess who was not at all unpleasant to look at and had a temperament that many found to be more pleasant than most other people’s. Her nickname was Snow White, indicative of the discriminatory notions of associating pleasant or attractive qualities with light, and unpleasant or unattractive qualities with darkness. Thus, at an early age, Snow White was an unwitting if fortunate target of colorist thinking.

When Snow White was quite young, her mother was suddenly stricken ill, grew more advanced in nonhealth, and finally was rendered nonviable. The father, the king, grieved for what can be considered a healthy period of time, then asked another wommon to be his queen. Snow White did her best to please her new mother-of step, but a cold distance remained between them.

The queen’s prized possession was a magic mirror that would answer truthfully any question asked it. Now, years of social conditioning in a male hierarchical dictatorship had left the queen very insecure about her own self-worth. Physical beauty was the one standard she cared about now, and she defined herself solely in regard to her personal appearance. So every morning the queen would ask the mirror:

“Mirror, mirror, on the wall,

“Who’s the fairest one of all?”

Her mirror would answer:

“For all it’s worth, O my queen,

“Your beauty is the fairest to be seen.”

That dialogue went on regularly until once when the queen was having a bad hair day and was desperately in need of support, she asked the usual question and the mirror answered:

“Alas, if worth be based on beauty,

“Snow White has surpassed you, cutie.”

At this, the queen flew into a rage. The chance to work with Snow White to form a strong bond of sisterhood had long passed. Instead, the queen indulged in an adopted masculine power trip and ordered the royal woodsperson to take Snow White into the forest and kill her. And, possibly to impress the males in the royal court, she barbarously ordered that the girl’s heart be cut out and brought back to her.

The woodsperson sadly agreed to these orders, and led the girl, who was actually now a young wommon, into the middle of the forest. But his connections to the earth and seasons had made him a kind soul, and he couldn’t bear to harm the girl. He told Snow White of the oppressive and unsisterly order of the queen and told her to run as deeply as she could into the forest.

The frightened Snow White did as she was told. The woodsperson, fearing the queen’s wrath but unwilling to take another life merely to indulge her vanity, went into town and had the candy maker concoct a heart of red marzipan. When he presented this to the queen, she hungrily devoured the heart in a sickening display of pseudo-cannibalism.

Meanwhile, Snow White ran deep into the woods. Just when she thought she had fled as far as she could from civilization and its unhealthy influences, she stumbled upon a cottage. Inside she saw seven tiny beds, set in a row and all unmade. She also saw seven sets of dishes piled high in the sink and seven Barcaloungers in front of seven remote-controlled TVs. She surmised that the cottage belonged to either seven little men or one sloppy numerologist. The beds looked so inviting that the tired youngster curled up on one and immediately fell asleep.

When she awoke several hours later, she saw the faces of seven bearded, vertically challenged men surrounding the bed. She sat up with a start and gasped. One of the men said, “You see that? Just like a flighty woman: resting peacefully one minute, up and screaming the next.”

“I agree,” said another. “She’ll disrupt our strong bond of brotherhood and create competition among us for her affections. I say we throw her in the river in a sack full of rocks.”

“I agree we should get rid of her,” said a third, “but why degrade the ecology? Let’s just feed her to a bear or something and let her become part of the food chain.”

“Hear, hear!”

“Sound thinking, brother.”

When Snow White finally regained her senses, she begged, “Please, please don’t kill me. I meant no harm by sleeping on your bed. I thought no one would ever notice.”

“Ah, you see?” said one of the men. “Female preoccupations are already surfacing. She’s complaining that we don’t make our beds.”

“Kill her! Kill her!”

“Please, no!” she cried. “I have traveled so deep into these woods because my mother-of-step, the queen, ordered me killed.”

“See that? Internecine female vindicativeness!”

“Don’t try and play victim with us, kid!”

“QUIET!” boomed one of the men, who had flaming red hair and a nonhuman animal skin on his head. Snow White quickly realized that he was their leader and that her fate rested in his hands. “Explain yourself. What’s your name, and why have you really come here?”

“My name is Snow White,” she began, “and I’ve already told you: My mother-of-step, the queen, ordered a woodsperson to take me into the forest and kill me, but he took pity and told me to run away into the woods as far as I could.”

“Just like a woman,” grumbled one of the men under his breath, “get a man to do her dirty work.”

The leader held up his hands for silence. He said, “Well, Snow White, if that’s your story, I guess we’ll have to believe you.”

Snow White was beginning to resent her treatment but tried not to let it show. “And who are you guys, anyway?”

“We are known as the Seven Towering Giants,” said the leader. Snow White’s suppression of a giggle did not go unnoticed. The leader continued, “We are towering in spirit and so are giants among the men of the forest. We used to earn our living by digging in our mines, but we decided that such a rape of the planet was immoral and short-sighted (besides, the bottom fell out of the metals market). So now we are dedicated stewards of the earth and live here in harmony with nature. To make ends meet, we also conduct retreats for those who need to get in touch with their primitive masculine identities.”

“So what does that involve,” asked Snow White, “aside from drinking milk straight from the carton?”

“Your sarcasm is ill-advised,” warned the leader of the Seven Towering Giants. “My fellow giants want to get rid of your corrupting feminine presence, and I might not be able to stop them, understand? My men, we must speak our hearts openly and honestly. Let us adjourn to the sweat lodge!”

The seven little men scampered out the front door, whooping and stripping off their clothes. Snow White didn’t know what to do while waiting. For fear of stepping on anything that might be scurrying about amid the debris on the floor, she stayed on the bed, although she did manage to make it without ever stepping off.

Snow White heard drumming and shouts, and, soon after, the Seven Towering Giants came back into the cottage. They didn’t smell as bad as she thought they would, and thankfully they all wore loincloths.

“Agggh! Look at what she’s done to my bed! I want her out of here! I want to change my vote!”

“Calm down, brother,” said the leader. “Don’t you see? This is just what we were talking about: contrasts. We can better measure our progress as true men if there is a female around for comparison.”

The men grumbled among themselves about the wisdom of this decision. But Snow White had had enough. “I resent being kept around like an object, just a yardstick for your egos and penises!”

“Fair enough,” the leader said. “You’re free to make your way back through the woods. Give our regards to the queen.”

“Well, I guess I can stay until I figure out a new plan,” she said.

“Very well,” said the leader, “but we have a few ground rules. No dusting. No straightening up. And no rinsing out underwear in the sink.”

“And no peeking in the sweat lodge.”

“And stay away from our drums.”

Meanwhile, back at the castle, the queen rejoiced at the thought that her rival in beauty had been eliminated. She puttered around her boudoir reading Glamour and Elle, and indulged herself with three whole pieces of chocolate without purging. Later, she confidently strolled up to her magic mirror and asked her same, sad question:

“Mirror, mirror, on the wall,

“Who’s the fairest one of all?”

The mirror replied,

“Your weight is perfect for your shape and height,

“But for sheer OOOOMPH!, you can’t beat Snow White.”

At this news, the queen clenched her fists and screamed at the top of her lungs. For years, her insecurities had been eating away at her until now they turned her into someone who was morally out of the mainstream. With cunning and malice, she began to devise a plan to ensure the nonviability of her daughter-of-step.

A few days later, Snow White, to be sure she didn’t touch or rearrange anything, was meditating on the floor in the middle of the cottage. Suddently there was a knock on the door. Snow White opened the door to find a chronologically gifted woman with a basket in her hand. By the look of her clothes, she was apparently unfettered by the confines of regular employment.

“Help a woman of unreliable income, dearie,” she said, “and buy one of my apples.”

Snow White thought for a moment. In protest against agribusiness conglomerates, she had a personal rule against buying food from middlepersons. But her heart went out to the economically marginalized woman, so she said yes. What Snow White didn’t know was that this was really the queen in disguise and that the apple had been chemically and genetically altered so that whoever bit it would sleep forever.

When Snow White handed over the money for the apple, you would have expected the queen to be gleeful that her plan for revenge was working. Instead, as she looked at Snow White’s fine complexion and slim, taut body, she felt alternating waves of envy and self-revulsion. Finally, she burst into tears.

“Why, what’s the matter?” asked Snow White.

“You’re so young and beautiful.” sobbed the disguised queen, “and I’m horrible to look at and getting worse.”

“You shouldn’t say that. After all, beauty comes from inside a person.”

“I’ve been telling myself that for years,” said the queen, “and I still don’t believe it. How do you stay in such perfect shape?”

“Well, I meditate, work out in step aerobics three hours a day, and eat only half-portions of anything placed in front of me. Would you like me to show you?”

“Oh, yes, yes, please,” said the queen. So they started out with 30 minutes of simple hatha yoga meditation, then worked out on step for another hour. As they relaxed afterward, Snow White cut her apple in half and gave a piece to the queen. Without thinking, the queen bit into it, and both of them fell into a deep sleep.

Later that day, the Seven Towering Giants returned from a retreat in the woods, elaborately decked out in animal skins, feathers, and mud. With them was a prince from a nearby kingdom, who had come on this male retreat to find a cure for his impotence (or, as he preferred to call it, his involuntary suspension from phallocentric activity). They were all laughing and high-fiving until they saw the bodies and stopped short.

“What has happened?” asked the prince.

“Apparently our house guest and this other woman got into some sort of catfight and killed each other,” surmised one giant.

“If they thought that by doing this, they could make us slaves to our weaker emotions, they’re wrong,” fumed anotoer

“Well, as long as we have to dispose of them, let’s practice one of those Viking funerals we’ve read about.”

“You know,” said the prince, “this might sound a little sick, but I trust you guys. I find that younger one attractive. Extremely attractive. Would you fellows mind…um…waiting outside while I…?”

“Stop right there!” said the leader of the giants. “Those half-eaten apple pieces, that filthy costume — this has all the earmarks of some sort of magic spell. They’re not really dead at all.”

“Whew,” sighed the prince, “that makes me feel better. So, could you guys take five and let me…?”

“Hold it, Prince,” said the leader. “Does Snow White make you feel like a man again?”

“She certainly does. Now, could you guys…?”

“Don’t touch her! You’ll break the spell.” The leader thought for a minute and said, “My brothers, I see certain economic possibilities arising from this. If we kept Snow White around here in this state, we could advertise our retreats as impotency therapy.”

The giants nodded in agreement with this idea, but the prince interrupted, “But what about me? I’ve already paid for my retreat. Why don’t I get to, um, take the cure?”

“No dice, Prince,” said the leader. “You can look but don’t touch. Otherwise you’ll break the spell. Tell you what, though. You can have the other one if you want.”

“I don’t want to sound classist,” said the prince, “but she’s not high enough caliber for me.”

“That’s pretty big talk from a man shooting blanks,” said one of the giants, and everybody but the prince laughed.

The leader said, “Come on, brothers, let’s lift these two off the floor and decide how we can best display them.” It took three giants for each female, but they managed to get the bodies aloft. As soon as they did, however, the pieces of poisoned apple fell from the mouths of Snow White and the queen, and they awoke from the spell.

“What do you think you’re doing? Put us down!” they shouted. The giants were so startled they almost dropped the womyn to the floor.

“That was the most sickening thing I have ever heard!” shouted the queen. “Offering us around like pieces of property!”

“And you,” said Snow White to the prince, “trying to make it with a girl in a coma! Yuck!”

“Hey, don’t blame me,” said the prince. “It’s a medical condition.”

The leader of the giants said, “Don’t start tossing blame around. You both broke into our property in the first place. I can call the police!”

“Don’t try it, Napoleon,” said the queen. “This forest is property of the crown. You are the ones who are trespassing!”

This rejoinder caused quite a stir, but not as big a commotion as when the queen warned: “And another thing. While we were immobile and you all blathered on in your sexist way, I had a personal awakening. From now on, I am going to dedicate my life to healing the rift between womyn’s souls and their bodies. I am going to teach women to accept their natural body images and become whole again. Snow White and I are going to build a womyn’s spa and conference center on this very spot, where we can hold retreats, caucuses, and ovariums for the sisters of the world.”

There was much shouting and name-calling, but the queen eventually had her way. Before the Seven Towering Giants could be evicted from their home, though, they packed up their sweat lodge and moved deeper into the woods. The prince stayed on at the spa as a cute but harmless tennis pro. And Snow White and the queen became good friends and earned world-wide fame for their contributions to sisterhood.

The giants were never heard from again, save for little muddy footprints that were sometimes found in the morning outside the windows of the spa’s locker room.





CHICKEN LITTLE




Chicken Little lived on a winding country lane surrounded by tall oak trees. (It should be mentioned here that the name “Little” was a family name, and not a derogatory, size-biased nickname. It was only by sheer coincidence that Chicken Little was also of shorter-than-average height.) One day, Chicken Little was playing in the road when a gust of wind blew through the trees. An acorn was blown loose and hit Chicken Little squarely on the head.

Now, while Chicken Little had a small brain in the physical sense, she did use it to the best of her abilities. So when she screamed, “The sky is falling, the sky is falling!” her conclusion was not wrong or stupid or silly, only logically underenhanced.

Chicken Little ran down the road until she came to the house of her neighbor, Henny Penny, who was tending her garden. This was a simple task, since she didn’t use any insecticide, herbicide or fertilizer, and also permitted the native nonedible varieties of wildflower (sometimes branded “weeds”) to mingle with her food crops. So, lost amid the foliage, Henny Penny heard Chicken Little’s voice long before she saw her.

“The sky is falling! The sky is falling!”

Henny Penny stuck her head out from her garden and said, “Chicken Little! Why are you carrying on so?”

Chicken Little said, “I was playing in the road when a huge chunk of the sky fell and landed on my head. See? Here’s the bump to prove it.”

“There’s just one thing to do,” said Henny Penny.

“What’s that?” asked Chicken Little.

“Sue the bastards!” said Henny Penny.

Chicken Little was puzzled. “Sue for what?”

“Personal injury, discrimination, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress, tortious interference, the tort of outrage — you name it, we’ll sue for it.”

“Good gracious!” said Chicken Little. “What will we get for all of that?”

“We can get payment for pain and suffering, compensatory damages, punitive damages, disability and disfigurement, long-term care, mental anguish, impaired earning power, loss of esteem…”

“Person, oh, person!” said Chicken Little joyfully. “Who are we going to sue?”

“Well, I don’t think the sky per se is recognized as a suable entity by the state,” said Henny Penny.

“I guess we should go find a lawyer and learn who is suable,” said Chicken Little, her diminutive brain working overtime.

“That’s a good idea. And while we’re there, I can ask whom to sue for these ridiculously bony legs of mine. They’ve caused me nothing but anguish and embarrassment my whole life and I should be compensated somehow for all that.”

So they ran farther down the road until they came to the house of their neighbor, Goosey Loosey. Goosey Loosey was busy teaching her canine animal companion to eat grass so she could avoid the guilty feelings that came with feeding the dog processed animal carcasses from a can.

“The sky is falling! The sky is falling!’

“Sue the bastards! Sue the bastards!”

Gooey Loosey leaned over her fence and said, “Land sakes! Why are you two carrying on so?”

“I was playing in the road and a piece of sky fell on my head,” explained Chicken Little.

“So we’re going to find a lawyer to tell us whom we can sue both for her injuries and for my bony legs.”

“Oh good! Can I come and sue someone for my long, gangly neck? You know, nothing really flatters it, so I am convinced there’s a conspiracy within the fashion industry against long-necked waterfowl.”

So the three of them ran down the road looking for legal assistance.

“The sky is falling! The sky is falling”

“Sue the bastards! Sue the bastards!”

“Smash the conspiracy! Smash the conspiracy!”

Farther down the road they met Foxy Loxy, who was dressed in a blue suit and carried a briefcase. He held up a paw to halt the entourage.

“And what are you three doing out on this lovely day?” asked Foxy Loxy.

“We’re looking for someone to sue!” they shouted in unison.

“What are your grievances? Personal injury? Discrimination? Intentional infliction of emotional distress? Negligent infliction of emotional distress? Tortious interference? The tort of outrage?”

“Oh, yes, yes,” the three said excitedly, “all that and more!”

“Well, then, you’re in luck,” said Foxy Loxy. “My caseload has just eased up, so I will be able to represent you in any and all lawsuits we can manage to bring.”

The trio cheered and flapped their wings. Chicken Little asked, “But who are we going to sue?”

Without missing a beat, Foxy Loxy said, “Who aren’t we going to sue? Three hapless victims such as yourselves will be able to find more guilty parties than you can shake a writ at. Now, let’s all step into my office so we can discuss this further.”

Foxy Loxy walked over to a small black metal door that was in the side of a small hill nearby. “Step right this way,” he said as he lifted the latch. But the black door wouldn’t open. Foxy Loxy tugged on it with one paw, then with both. It still wouldn’t budge. He yanked and pulled violently, cursing the door, its mental abilities, and its sexual history.

Finally the door swung open, and a huge ball of fire shot out. This was really the door to Foxy Loxy’s oven! But unfortunately for him, the ball of fire engulfed his head, burned off every hair and whisker, and left him totally catatonic. Chicken Little, Henny Penny, and Goosey Loosey ran away, thankful that they had not been devoured.

However, the family of Foxy Loxy caught up with them. In addition to suing the manufacturer of the oven door on behalf of Foxy Loxy, the family brought suit against the three above-named barnyard fowl, claiming entrapment, reckless endangerment, and fraud. The family sought payment for pain and suffering, compensatory damages, punitive damages, disability and disfigurement, long-term care, mental anguish, impaired earning power, loss of esteem, and the loss of a good dinner. The three birds later brought a countersuit, and they’ve all been battling in court from that day to this.





THE FROG PRINCE




Once there was a young princess who, when she grew tired of beating her head against the male power structure at her castle, would relax by walking into the woods and sitting beside a small pond. There she would amuse herself by tossing her favorite golden ball up and down and pondering the role of the eco-feminist warrior in her era.

One day, while she was envisioning the utopia that her queendom could become if women were in the positions of power, she dropped the ball, which rolled into the pond. The pond was so deep and murky she couldn't see where it had gone. She didn't cry, of course, but she made a mental note to be more careful next time.

Suddenly she heard a voice say, "I can get your ball for you, princess."

She looked around, and saw the head of a frog popping above the surface of the pond. "No, no," she said, "I would never enslave a member of another species to work for my selfish desires."

The frog said, "Well, what if we make a deal on a contingency basis? I'll get your ball for you if you do me a favor in return."

The princess gladly agreed to this most equitable arrangement. The frog dived under the water and soon emerged with the golden ball in his mouth. He spit the ball on the shore and said, "Now that I've done you a favor, I'd like to explore your views on physical attraction between the species."

The princess couldn't imagine what the frog was talking about. The frog continued, "You see, I am not really a frog at all. I'm really a man, but an evil sorcerer has cast a spell on me. While my frog form is no better or worse — only different — than my human form, I would so much like to be among people again. And the only thing that can break this spell is a kiss from a princess."

The princess thought for a moment about whether sexual harassment could take place between species, but her heart went out to the frog for his predicament. She bent down and kissed the frog on the forehead. Instantly the frog grew and changed. And there, standing in the water where the frog had been, was a man in a golf shirt and loud plaid pants -- middle-aged, vertically challenged, and losing a little bit of hair on top.

The princess was taken aback. "I'm sorry if this sounds a little classist," she stammered, "but...what I mean to say is... don't sorcerers usually cast their spells on princes?"

"Ordinarily, yes," he said, "but this time the target was just an innocent businessman. You see, I'm a real estate developer, and the sorcerer thought I was cheating him in a property-line dispute. So he invited me out for a round of golf, and just as I was about to tee off, he transformed me. But my time as a frog wasn't wasted, you know. I've gotten to know every square inch of these woods, and I think it would be ideal for an office park/condo/resort complex. The location's great and the numbers crunch perfectly! The bank wouldn't lend any money to a frog, but now that I'm in human form again, they'll be eating out of my hand. Oh, will that be sweet! And let me tell you, this is going to be a big project! Just drain the pond, cut down about 80 percent of the trees, get easements for..."

The frog developer was cut short when the princess shoved her golden ball back into his mouth. She then pushed him back underwater and held him there until he stopped thrashing. As she walked back to the castle, she marveled at the number of good deeds that a person could do in just one morning. And while someone might have noticed that the frog was gone, no one ever missed the real estate developer.





JACK AND THE BEANSTALK



Once upon a time, on a little farm, there lived a boy named Jack. He lived on the farm with his mother, and they were very excluded from the normal circles of economic activity. This cruel reality kept them in straits of direness, until one day Jack’s mother told him to take the family cow into town and sell it for as much as he could.

Never mind the thousands of gallons of milk they had stolen from her! Never mind the hours of pleasure their bovine animal companion had provided! And forget about the manure they had appropriated for their garden! She was now just another piece of property to them. Jack, who did not realize that non-human animals have as many rights as human animals — perhaps even more — did as his mother asked.

On his way to town, Jack met an old magic vegetarian, who warned Jack of the dangers of eating beef and dairy products.

“Oh, I’m not going to eat this cow,” said Jack. “I’m going to take her into town and sell her.”

“But by doing that, you’ll just perpetuate the cultural mythos of beef, ignoring the negative impact of the cattle industry on our ecology and the health and social problems that arise from meat consumption. But you look too simple to be able to make these connections, my boy. I’ll tell you what I’ll do: I’ll offer a trade of your cow for these three magic beans, which have as much protein as that entire cow and none of the fat or sodium.”

Jack made the trade gladly and took the beans home to his mother. When he told her about the deal he had made, she grew very upset. She used to think her son was merely a conceptual rather than a linear thinker, but now she was sure that he was downright differently abled. She grabbed the three magic beans and threw them out the window in disgust. Later that day, she attended her first support group meeting with Mothers of Storybook Children.

The next morning, Jack stuck his head out the window to see if the sun had risen in the east again (he was beginning to see a pattern in this). But outside the window, the beans had grown into a huge stalk that reached through the clouds. Because he no longer had a cow to milk in the morning, Jack climbed the beanstalk into the sky.

At the top, above the clouds, he found a huge castle. It was not only big, but it was built to larger-than-average scale, as if it were the home of someone who just happened to be a giant. Jack entered the castle and heard beautiful music wafting through the air. He followed this sound until he found its source: a golden harp that played music without being touched. Next to this self-actualized harp was a hen sitting on a pile of golden eggs.

Now, the prospect of easy wealth and mindless entertainment appealed to Jack’s bourgeois sensibilities, so he picked up both the harp and the hen and started to run for the front door. Then he heard thundering footsteps and a booming voice that said:

“FEE, FIE, FOE, FUM,

“I smell the blood of an English person!

“I’d like to learn about his culture and views on life!

“And share my own perspectives in an open

and generous way!”

Unfortunately, Jack was too crazed with greed to accept the giant’s offer of a cultural interchange. “It’s only a trick,” thought Jack. “Besides, what’s a giant doing with such fine, delicate things? He must have stolen them from somewhere else, so I have every right to take them.” His frantic justifications — remarkable for someone with his overtaxed mental resources — revealed a terrible callousness to the giant’s personal rights. Jack apparently was a complete sizeist, who thought that all giants were clumsy, knowledge-impaired, and exploitable.

When the giant saw Jack with the magic harp and the hen, he asked, “Why are you taking what belongs to me?”

Jack knew he couldn’t outrun the giant, so he had to think fast. He blurted out, “I’m not taking them, my friend. I am merely placing them in my stewardship so that they can be properly managed and brought to their fullest potential. Pardon my bluntness, but you giants are too simple in the head and don’t know how to manage your resources properly. I’m just looking out for your interests. You’ll thank me for this later.”

Jack held his breath to see if the bluff would save his skin. The giant sighed heavily and said, “Yes, you are right. We giants do use our resources foolishly. Why, we can’t even discover a new beanstalk before we get so excited and pick away at it so much we pull the poor thing right out of the ground!”

Jack’s heart sank. He turned and looked out the front door of the castle. Sure enough, the giant had destroyed his beanstalk. Jack grew frightened and cried, “Now I’m trapped here in the clouds with you forever!”

The giant said, “Don’t worry, my little friend. We are strict vegetarians up here, and there are always plenty of beans to eat. And besides, you won’t be alone. Thirteen other men of your size have already climbed up beanstalks to visit us and stayed.”

So Jack resigned himself to his fate as a member of the giant’s cloud commune. He didn’t miss his mother or their farm much, because up in the sky there was less work to do and more than enough to eat. And he gradually learned not to judge people based on their size ever again. Except for those shorter than he.





THE PIED PIPER OF HAMELIN




The picturesque little town of Hamelin had everything a community could wish for — non- polluting industries, effective mass transit, and a well-balanced ethno-religious diversity. In fact, the town leaders had managed to legislate or intimidate away every element that could keep the citizens from living a good and sensitive life. Every element, that is, except the trailer park.

The trailer park on the edge of Hamelin was a civic embarrassment. Not only was it a terrible eyesore, with its rusted pickup trucks and trash heaps in every backyard. Within it dwelled some of the most unregenerate and irredeemable people you could ever imagine — murderers of nondomestic animals, former clients of the correctional system, and off-road bikers. With their plastic daisy garden pinwheels, loud music, and drunken weekend brawls, they sent a shudder through every respectable person in town.

One day, after a particularly riotous road rally through the trailer park, the town leaders had a meeting. After heated debate, they decided that somehow they had to eradicate the trailer park. But they were at a loss as to how to do it without ignoring or infringing upon the rights of the people who lived there. Finally, after even more oratory, they decided to let that be someone else's worry, since they were already so burdened with more important concerns, such as declining property values. So the town leaders decided to advertise for someone to solve their problems.

Soon after the advertisement was sent out, a man appeared in town. He was very vertically gifted and of lower-than-average weight for his size. His clothes were worn in combinations never before seen or imagined, and his mannerisms and high-pitched voice were certainly unique. Although he looked like he came from some world other than (but certainly not unequal to) our own, he gained the trust of the desperate town leaders.

"I will be able to rid your town of the trailer-park dwellers," said the man of enhanced strangeness, "but you must promise to pay me 100 pieces of gold!"

The town leaders wanted this whole unpleasant business finished as soon as possible, so they readily assented. The sooner the trailer park was eliminated, the sooner they could all revert to their open-minded, progressive selves.

So the man of enhanced strangeness got down to work. He reached into his tattered knapsack and pulled out a sophisticated, compact recording machine. The people around him looked on with interest as he inserted a few tapes, set some knobs, and checked the sound levels. Then he began mumbling into the built-in microphone. No one could hear exactly what he was saying, but the man seemed to be lacking in coherence. Abruptly, he stopped mumbling, stood up, and told the town leaders that he needed a truck with a public-address system.

The authorities scrambled after this strange request. They managed to find such a truck at the Department of Public Biodiversity and handed over the keys to the man of enhanced strangeness. He climbed in and drove off, popping the cassette he had made into the sound system. Everyone followed the truck as it headed toward the trailer park.

Soon music began to emerge from the slowly moving truck — generally country music but also occasional classics like "The Ballad of the Green Berets" and "Ghost Riders in the Sky." The town leaders were puzzled by this, until they noticed people emerging from their trailers, tool sheds, and taverns. The people had a certain glassy expression and talked to themselves as they stumbled along.

"I'm gonna go git me a job," said one. "I hear the carny is hirin'."

"I think I’ll join the professional tractor-pull circuit," said another.

"Do you think I could make a livin' by signin' up for medical experiments?" asked a third.

The denizens of the trailer park followed the truck as it drove slowly toward the edge of town. Soon both they and it disappeared over the horizon, and the town leaders lifted a cheer.

About an hour later the truck returned, minus its entourage. "I led them all to the highway," said the man of enhanced strangeness as he alighted from the truck. "They're out thumbing rides for anyplace but Hamelin. Now the trailer park is free for you to use in whatever way you want."

"Marvelous!" said one of the authorities, who was serving as a spokesperson. "Now that they're gone, we can commence with our plans for a Third-World Refugee Reorientation Center. Thank you, thank you."

"Now, if you will kindly pay me the 100 pieces of gold you promised, I'll be on my way."

"Well, er .... Hamelin is striving to establish an economy that is based on human capital and not the mere exploitation of physical resources. And so, to this end, we'd like to offer to you this coupon book, which entitles you to such services in Hamelin as free massages and seminars on releasing your inner child."

The man of enhanced strangeness squinted his eyes. "You promised me 100 pieces of gold," he said, growing visibly angry. "Now pay up or suffer the consequences."

"If you wish to abandon your responsibility for making the world a more equitable place," clucked the spokesperson, "so be it. We will have to give you the official Hamelin IOU, which can be redeemed for a significant portion of its face value at many of the currency exchanges and liquor stores in the surrounding towns."

The man of enhanced strangeness paused, then chuckled eerily and climbed back into the truck. Before anyone could stop him, he began to drive through all the neighborhoods of Hamelin. As he went, the truck played a weird, high-pitched music that no one could recognize. Soon, the children of Hamelin emerged from their houses and streamed from their playgrounds. With glazed looks, they milled about in the streets. The town leaders could hear the children talking earnestly to each other:

"Free markets are the only sure way to give people the personal incentive to build a better society," said one child.

"We must respect the rights of citizens to preserve the ethnic purity of their neighborhoods," said another.

"Our only obligation as a society is to make sure everyone has a level playing field," said a third.

As their children began to form tax protest groups and gun clubs, the town leaders sadly realized that all their years of careful social planning would soon come to nothing. The next day, they found the public address truck on the outskirts of town, but there was no sign of the mysterious man whom they had tried to swindle.





BONUS MATERIALS!





THE DUCKLING THAT WAS JUDGED ON ITS PERSUNAL MERITS AND NOT ON ITS PHYSICAL APPEARANCE




Now I’d like to tell you the story of the duckling that was judged on its persunal merits and not on its physical appearance. A very happy little tale that would be.

Such a story would be completely make-believe, of course. The world would never be so kind-hearted or fair. To anthropomorphize waterfowl with these generous traits would be ridiculous, especially if they are meant to represent people in a fable like this one.

So instead, I will tell you a story of a poor egg, displaced by who knows what misfortune, that fell through the barnyard social safety net (not literally, for that would result in a very short story) and found itself in the nest of a Mama Duck. This Mama Duck was single and proud of it, and she was happy to take on this extra responsibility. Among all its nestmates, there was no way to tell that this egg was special. Of course, each egg was special in its own way, but this one was especially special. When all the ducklings hatched, it was clear that one of them was so very special that her face could stop a sundial.

“Oh my,” said Mama Duck, running through a mental list of all the male ducks she’d known in the past few months. What had gone on during that weekend in Copenhagen? It was awfully dark, but had she really been that stoned?

But appearances mattered not at all to the differently pretty duckling. She swam like her brothers and sisters. She ate seaweed like her brothers and sisters. She tormented mentally challenged hunters with slapstick and practical jokes like her brothers and sisters.

Still, the Mama Duck could not be comforted. She had big plans for her ducklings: enrollment in the best private schools, dance and gymnastics lessons, tennis camp, summer internships in the capital. That was all endangered now, because of the lookist biases of both society and herself.

“Maybe we could test the ugly one,” she said to herself, revealing who was truly the ugly one. “If we found she had a learning disability – a small manageable one, of course, not a big one – a school would have to give her accommodations and she’d get better grades. Heaven knows the little thing needs a web up!”

Deep down, Mama Duck was quite the Yuddie. Everything had to be just so for her brood to move up in the world. The unfulfilled dreams for her own life caused her to put way too much pressure on her offspring. In one of her biggest obsessions, she entered her ducklings in junior beauty pageants for the barnyard. It was a sad sight indeed to watch the ducklings try and tap-dance wearing gobs of eye makeup and glitter and mousse in their feathers.

In response, the cosmetically challenged duckling organized her own competitions for the youngsters around. They competed in science fairs and photography contests, organized blood drives, and held soccer tournaments in which no one kept score and everyone was a winner.

As she grew older, the alternatively attractive duckling became even more self-confident. She had an inner strength that allowed her to keep her mother’s problems from damaging her own self-esteem. Sure, the duckling had her phases. She went punk for a while, then Goth, and did some experimentation with another she-duck in college. But through it all, she was very happy to be who she was, and thumbed her beak at the hang-ups of the rest of the barnyard.

Some animals thought she had a little too much attitude. Whispers began behind her back: “That ugly duckling is just overcompensating because she can’t get a date. Even the loons won’t go out with her, and they’d do it with a decoy.”

To fight these shallow notions, the duckling began to speak out about animals accepting their own bodies. She was a charismatic speaker, and her lisp made her even more endearing and authentic. “We are all beautiful inside,” she would tell everyone. “Who cares that some of us are graceful and others aren’t? We can accomplish great things when we stop worrying about what we all look like.”

Soon, and despite her good intentions, she began to be idolized by the animals that are rarely perceived as cute and cuddly. The armadillos followed her around with stars in their eyes, and the warthogs hung on her every word (as you can tell, this was a very inclusive barnyard).

As time went on, however, the other animals noticed a change in the duckling. And the duckling began to notice a change in their attitudes toward her. The animals who had been her friends seemed to treat her coldly and eventually drifted away. At the same time, the animals she previously had disagreed with (including her mother) began to accept her more readily.

By accident, she caught a glimpse of herself in the calm water of the pond. She didn’t recognize what was looking back. Instead of motley earth-tone feathers, she was now covered in smooth white down. Instead of a uniquely gangly neck, she now beheld a long, slender one.

She was no longer a duckling with an individual style that went counter to the dominant beauty paradigm. She was now a graceful and elegant swan!

“Bwaahhh!” she cried. “Look at me! What’s happened?”

“Aww,” smiled the other animals, “isn’t she just the cutest when she cries?”

“Don’t condescend to me!” she shouted.

“My, my,” said everyone, “that’s a mighty big word for such a pretty little thing! And that lisp! Adorable!”

The former duckling left them and went to find her adoring fans. She begged them, “Don’t hate me because I’m beautiful!”

The warthog and the armadillo frowned and said, “We don’t. We hate you because you’re a swan.”

And so, because of the lookist prejudices of barnyard society, the former duckling had an impossible time getting anyone to take her seriously again. Even on such life-and-death issues as protesting foie gras (R.I.P. Mama Duck), no one listened to a word she said. The sad little bird spent the rest of her days floating around with the other swans, who could talk about nothing else but trendy fashion, spa visits, and reality TV shows.





A CHILD’S GARDEN OF POLITICAL CORRECTNESS



There was a crooked man,

And he walked a crooked mile.

He found a crooked pence

Against a crooked stile.

He bought a crooked cat

Which caught a crooked mouse,

And they all lived together

In a Residence for the Differently Angled.





There was an old woman who lived in a shoe.

She had so many children, she didn’t know what to do.

She’d have a good life, not troubles so numerous,

If she’d had family planning and control of her uterus.





Old King Cole was a merrie old soul,

A merrie old soul was he.

He called for his pipe and called for his bowl

And toked away, mon, for his irie.





Solomon Grundy,

Born on Monday,

Schooled in the self-serving lies of

dead white European males on Tuesday,

Rejected it Wednesday,

Meditated Thursday,

Opened an ashram Friday,

Gained enlightenment Saturday,

Transcended the material world Sunday.

Now there is no end to Solomon Grundy.





Mary had a little lamb

Whose fleece was pigment-impaired.

And everywhere that Mary went,

The two were inseparably paired.



The lamb followed her to school one day,

Which was against the rules,

So Mary took the Board to court

For open enrollment at school.



"Who's to say," Mary began,

"That lambs must be excluded?

Your speciesism makes you vile,

Morally bankrupt and deluded!



Your anthropo-bias is laid bare

When you ban the animal kingdom.

Further, we demand a total halt

To calling diplomas 'sheepskin'."



So Mary and her lamb now sit

Side by side in class.

Other kids brought their animals too,

And the headmaster's now an ass.





What are little boys made of?

What are little boys made of?

Testosterone and not much else.

That's what little boys are made of.



What are little girls made of?

What are little girls made of?

If you have to ask, you wouldn't understand anyway.

That's what little girls are made of.





Baa Baa, Sheep of Color,

Have you any wool?

Yes sir, yes ma'am, three bags full.



But you can't have it

Without just compensation.

I'm fed up with your animal-fiber exploitation!





One, two, three O'Leary,

Four, five, six O'Leary,

Seven, eight, nine O'Leary

Ten O'Learys straining the Earth with their irresponsible attitude toward birth control!





Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall.

"I'm looking for a better view," is all

He said before he fell. Alas,

The wall wasn't built for such a round ass.



Soon the king's masons rebuilt the wall

So that it could be used by all.

Egg and orange, butter and jam,

Now all have spaces reserved for them.





Jack Sprat could eat no fat,

His wife could eat no lean,

So, as sizeism survivors,

They licked the platter clean.





Sing a song of sixpence,

A pocket full of rye,

No amount of blackbirds belong in a pie!



Maybe next time we should

Bake some carnivores in there,

And see how they like being served on Fiestaware!





Little Miss Muffet

Sat on a tuffet

Eating her curds and whey.



A spider came down

And said with a frown,

"Were I a puppy, you'd not run away."



Little Miss Muffet

Intended to hoof it,

But asked rather, "What do you mean?"



"Look," said the bug,

"Would you give a hug

To an arachnid who came on the scene?



Ho no, I think not!

You think we've not got

The least bit of cuteness or warmth.



The only direction

You heap your affection

Is toward bunnies and cats and so forth.



Species dualism, Sister!

And before I get hyster-

Ical, you better shape up and quickly!"



"I'm sorry," she blushed,

"Would you like some of my mush?"

He said, "No, human food is too icky!



But I've got an idea:

If you could but be a

Human animal companion to me,



I'll forgive your transgression

and show no aggression.

The pluses are easy to see.



I'll be your best buddy,

Better than some bloody

Damn kitten or pony named Pearl.



Better yet, I'll inform you

On how to be warm to

My friends in the invertebrate world."



Muffet's house is now filled

With cockroaches and pill-

bugs and other, much-maligned "pests."



She feels so much smarter,

But eating is harder

Without swallowing some of her guests.





Mary Mary, quite organic,

How does your garden grow?

With mulch made up of household scraps

And insecticidal soap.





Hickety Pickety, my black hen,

Her eggs are stolen by women and men,

High cholesterol levels her sole revenge.

Hickety Pickety, my black hen.





Peter Peter Pumpkin Eater

Had a wife and couldn’t keep her.

No surprise they got divorced.

You can’t “keep” folks like things, of course.





Pussycat, Pussycat, where have you been?

I’ve been to London to visit the queen.

Pussycat, Pussycat, what did you there?

I lobbied for preschools and free day care.





Little Jack Horner sat in a corner

Eating his Hanukkah latkes.

Not so strange, this poem they changed,

Since not much rhymes with “latkes”.





(Dedicated to Johnathan Prevette, suspended from the first grade in Lexington, N.C., in September 1996 for kissing a classmate on the cheek)





Georgie Porgie, puddin' and pie,

Kissed the girls and made them cry.



No, not the girls, who're none the wiser—

But principals, teachers, supervisor.



"Harrassment! Harrassment! Bounce him quick!

Such lewd behavior makes us sick!"



Reporters fed the lurid scenario:

"Class Now Safe From First-Grade Lothario."



But some smart girls made notes for the future,

'Cuz this Georgie must be some fine smoocher.



Now Georgie's got six dates for prom,

But can't cross the street without his mom.





Doctor Foster went to Gloucester

All in a shower of rain.

He stepped in a puddle right up to his middle

And said, “Where are the global warming skeptics now?”





The Queen of Hearts made some tarts

All on a summer’s day.

The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts

And took them clean away.

The King of Hearts called for the tarts

And beat the Knave full sore.

Then starving serfs burned down the castle,

Royal nonsense taking no more.





Jack and Jill went up the hill

To fetch a pail of water.

The well was dry, so they did try

To practice conservation thereafter.





There was a little girl who had a little curl

Right in the middle of her forehead.

When she was good, she was very very good,

But when she was bad, they upped her meds.





A ROYAL REVENGE




Back in 2002, Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain celebrated the Golden Jubilee of her reign on the throne. In honor of this event, the British Broadcasting Corporation asked a handful of writers to pen stories about royal women. These were to be recorded by talented actors and broadcast all over the civilized world on BBC Radio.

I was pretty flattered to be asked, believe me. Infrequently does your morning bring an email to your inbox asking whether you could whip up a little story so that it can be broadcast ALL OVER THE WORLD! True, they didn’t offer any land or honorary title for it, but I didn’t push them on it. The commemorative tea towel was plenty.

While not strictly a politically correct version of a fairy tale, it’s funny enough that I thought readers would get a kick out of it.



--JFG





Once upon a time in a land far away, there lived a beautiful queen named Hermione. This queen lived in a lovely large palace with many servants, but she was very sad. She had not seen her husband King Vidor for many days. Although the size of their palace made it easy to lose track of one another, she had become convinced that he was avoiding her on purpose. Whenever she called on his chambers, the king’s attendants would hem and haw. “Oh, your majesty, his majesty is out hunting snipes,” they would say, or “His majesty’s off bear-baiting with the Duke of Wallyballoo.”

She knew these were lies, of course, which only made Hermione more sad. Once upon a time—not the current time, you understand, but once upon a previous time—she and King Vidor had been very much in love. They had had the most marvelous wedding, with an enormous guest list that included, for safety’s sake, every fairy, witch, and media mogul in the land.

But that was nearly four years ago now, and the king’s vows to love her “forever and a day” were fading like yesterday’s fairy dust. Hermione had even given Vidor an heir right on schedule, little Prince Lithwick, as cute and clever as a boy could be. But even this was driving them apart. The king had begun throwing lavish parties, ostensibly to find a suitable wife for the young prince. But Queen Hermione knew that it was merely a ploy that allowed the king to meet ambitious and lovely young maidens for himself. After all, Lithwick was still in nappies, so one would expect a wife for him to be younger than 17. Moreover, the king’s prerequisite that she be “open-minded and adventurous about relationships” seemed entirely inappropriate as well.

Queen Hermione had to face facts: King Vidor was having a full-blown midlife crisis. Always vain and insecure, he had grown restless in their marriage and was using his royal position to gain ungentlemanly advantage over other women. This depressed her majesty so much that she called on her sister Hepsibah, who was queen in the second kingdom down on the right. They shared their stories over tea and biscuits.

“I don’t know what to do,” Queen Hermione complained. “My husband thinks he’s still a prince. He’s got no concept of ‘happily ever after.’”

“Kings are all scum,” said her sister bitterly. “They’re all prince charmings when they’re young. Promise you anything to get you in the bedchamber. Then, once you’ve popped out an heir or two, it’s farewell old queen, hello Spanish Infanta.”

Hermione protested, “Surely they’re not all terrible. What about King Wilberforce, that nice monarch in Garlandia?”

“That ‘nice monarch’,” snorted Hepsibah, “sent his wife on a fact-finding mission to the Inescapable Frost Mountains of Doom, then started hitting on some miller’s daughter who said she could spin straw into gold.”

“Well, what about that gallant Emperor Septimius? He always dresses his wife in such fine clothes.”

“Yes, as long as he keeps the finer clothes for himself,” said her sister. “Word is, he’s gone off the deep end. He arranged some sort of royal pageant to show off a new set of regal robes he’d commissioned, then proceeded to walk through the entire city as naked as a dragon whelp. I tell you, it’s pretty hard to maintain the divine right of kings when you insist on parading the crown jewels to everyone like that.”

Queen Hermione scowled and had another sip of tea. Her sister’s bitterness was understandable. A few years earlier, Hepsibah had married a widowed king, and was now continually bickering with her stepdaughter. This stepdaughter made some terrible accusations against the queen—even that Hepsibah had tried to have her killed—and now this headstrong teenager had pledged herself to being some kind of eco-warrior and was living with some strange polygamy cult in the forest. That is, assuming the seven little weirdoes had even bothered to marry her.

Hepsibah rang for the servants to clear the dishes. “I think the Queen of Hearts over in Wonderland has it right,” she said. “You can’t display any weakness, even for a moment, or they’ll ride roughshod over you. ‘Off with their heads,’ she screams—pretty sound plan, if you ask me.”

“Isn’t there a better way? I mean, the Queen of Hearts, you know…”

“I know what you’re going to say,” said Hepsibah. “Those rumors have been floating around for years. Strong women get labeled that by insecure men. So what if she likes rugby? Sister, dear, if you want to put your king back in his place, then you’ve got to come up with a plan.”

“Suppose this is just a passing fancy... ”

“Hermione, listen,” interrupted her sister. “You’re 23 years old. More than half your life is over. If the king has begun drooling over younger wenches, you don’t have much time to act.”

So Queen Hermione and her sister began to scheme. Hepsibah, always the studious one, was a practitioner of the black arts. She knew all about poisons, spells, disguises and dubious accounting practices. She offered these services to Queen Hermione and began to list a number of spells she could cast upon the king, each more dreadful than the last. They had a good laugh as they imagined torturing the king in various ways, especially having him fall in love with his breakfast every morning. But Queen Hermione only wanted to humble the king, not harm him, so they deferred breaking out the heavy alchemy and discussed other alternatives.

Hepsibah had once owned an enchanted mirror that would truthfully answer any question that was asked it. But owning one of these sounds a lot better than actually having it around. After asking the mirror for the umpteenth time, “Does this ermine-trimmed robe make my bum look fat?”, Hepsibah had junked the mirror and replaced it with a magic public relations advisor. Now, she only got as many truthful answers as a royal personage could reasonably be expected to handle.

So the two majesties sought the advice of the magic PR advisor. This spin doctor, whose name was Marnie, had many assistants and polltakers at her disposal. Marnie consulted her mystical charts and cosmic focus groups, and prepared an extensive report outlining how Queen Hermione could take her story to her loving subjects without making it appear that she was being disloyal to the king.

“First off, Queenie darling,” said Marnie, “we need to establish that you’re a caring, sensitive person, that other people’s problems are your problems too, no matter how wretched those people are. Otherwise, this whole operation won’t fly.”

“I do care about other people’s problems,” insisted Hermione.

“Fine, great, whatever. That will give us a leg up. First, we’ll need to establish some charities that will get you some publicity. I’ve set up a breakfast meeting with the royal treasurer for tomorrow morning.”

So Queen Hermione went on a PR offensive and took the lead in establishing a number of charities around the kingdom. The first of these was a fund for battered, imprisoned or wrongfully enchanted women called the Rapunzel Fund. While many conservative commentators (most notably Bluebeard) argued that such charities should be a private sector initiative, it was very popular among the middle class artisans and boosted the Queen’s approval ratings tremendously.

This was followed by an appearance before the Royal College of Barbers and Surgeons, at which Queen Hermione argued forcefully that sulfur poultices and leech bleedings be made available to all her subjects, regardless of their ability to pay.

Later, to prove she wasn’t just a bookish policy nerd but also had a playful nature, the Queen posed for portraits (very tastefully, of course) that were printed in a popular series of playing cards. When these high-profile actions had reaped a reasonable amount of goodwill, Marnie the Magic Spin Doctor said:

“Right, Hermy dear, well done. Now…”

“Excuse me,” said the queen, “I’ve been meaning to bring this up. That is entirely too familiar a tone to take with your queen. My name is Hermione, not Hermy.”

“Which brings us to Step Two,” said Marnie. “People see the queen and they see privilege, they see wealth, they see high castle walls. You still need to connect with people. A friendly nickname is a good place to start. Makes you seem more human. Besides, it fits in the headlines better. Now, Hermy, it’s time to get the message out that all is not ‘happily ever after’ with you. Get ready for some public sobbing, dear.”

Marnie first placed a few teasing tidbits about King Vidor and his transgressions in the popular media. She called several selected town criers and traveling minstrels she knew and carefully leaked some of the more salacious details of the king’s behavior. Then a few days later, after a large crowd had gathered for a public beheading, the queen held a seemingly impromptu yet carefully orchestrated question-and-answer session with the audience. Here, the kingdom learned firsthand of Queen Hermy’s heartbreak.

Many a tear fell, and the public’s sympathy for her was overwhelming.

After this, the only thing anyone in the kingdom talked about was the queen’s marital problems. People everywhere sympathized with her, and could relate to her troubles because of the problems in their own lives. (Of course, there was a silent but sizeable male minority who approved of the king’s laddish behavior, but only the most foolhardy would say such a thing out loud.) The queen gave so many interviews and made so many appearances, that she was away from the castle for weeks on end. As time went on, she was besieged by spokespeasants for all sorts of disparate causes, everything from unicorn conservation to jousting leagues for disadvantaged youths. Queen Hermione became a lightning rod that attracted every malcontent and axe-grinder in the kingdom, including the Royal Guild of Malcontented Axe-grinders. Yet despite all the front page attention, photo ops and sympathetic editorials, she was no closer to solving her own problems.

After six months of this aggravation, the queen dismissed Marnie and her team and once again showed up at her sister’s portcullis for tea and sympathy. Hepsibah tried to make her feel good about raising public awareness on so many important issues, but Queen Hermione scoffed.

“I may have helped start a few moat safety campaigns,” she said, “but my marriage is still a wreck. The king has been totally unmoved by all my public revelations.”

“King Vidor is still bounding around like he’s a 20-something prince regent?” Hepsibah asked.

“Yes. In fact, he has barely any notion of what we’ve been doing. His advisors screen everything he sees.”

“So he’s still the same middle-aged egocentric?” asked her sister.

“As vain as a bloody peacock,” said Hermione.

Suddenly Hepsibah had a clever idea and brightened into a sly smile. “So, does he spend a lot of time in front of a mirror?”

“Heavens yes, he can spend hours gazing at his own image.”

“Well, then,” smiled Hepsibah, “I have just the thing for him: do you remember that enchanted mirror I used to have?”

“You mean that dreadful one that only tells the truth?”

“That’s the one!” Hepsibah smiled triumphantly.

“Who could stand to have the truth told about them every minute of every day?” the queen wondered.

“Certainly not one who wears a corset to keep his middle-aged paunch in check.”

A realization dawned on Queen Hermione, and she smiled the same sly smile as her sister. The two began to laugh and laugh until the servants worried that they had gone mad.

The next day King Vidor was anonymously presented with the most beautifully ornate mirror he had ever seen. He was delighted to have such a fine looking-glass with which to greet himself each day. But this charming gift soon began to make to make his every morning miserable: Not only did the mirror remind the king that he was paunchy, dull-witted and beginning to lose his hair, but it also informed the young women who had been brought to his chambers in no uncertain terms that they were low-rent, castle-wrecking tramps.

After a short time of such perceptive reflections, King Vidor came crawling back to the queen begging for her forgiveness. Hermione listened to his sorry tale carefully and said she would think about it, just as soon as she finished work on her searingly honest, tell-all memoirs, over which several publishers were already engaged in a frantic bidding war.





HONK HONK, MY DARLING: A “REX KOKO, PRIVATE CLOWN” MYSTERY




Rex Koko is a character living in a demi-monde that I’ve been playing with for a long time. He actually started out as part of a stage act I did more than 20 years ago called the Waveland Radio Playhouse. Among our short parodies of old radio serials (“Doctors Hospital of Medicine”, “Smitty, Wolf-Boy of the Yukon”, “Suspense Theatre: He Dies in the End”, et al.) that we performed onstage, the story of “Rex Koko, Private Clown” was our flagship or, if you will, our tentpole. We went back to it again and again, finding more and more material, and had a great time writing episodes.

About 10 years ago, I started writing novels about Rex. This longer format required me to do research and flesh out his world more. Eventually I concocted a ghetto full of washed-up circus people who lived on the edge of respectable society near a large metropolis. (This resonated with the historical fact that circus people have always existed outside of “normal” society and maintained their own customs, priorities, traditions and slang. This semi-veracity made the stories much easier to write.) Thus was the postwar neighborhood of Top Town invented, and the genre of “clown noir” born.

Rex Koko is a clown with a tragic past. For years, the circus “kinkers” have blamed him for a disaster he was no part of. The memories of that disaster have haunted Rex, however, and made him obsess about how he could have prevented it. He’s both loved and reviled among the circus folk, and he spends the time he’s sober solving other people’s problems and hoping for some kind of redemption. He’s a joey down to the bone, however, and never solves a case without breaking a lot of eggs.

I hope you enjoy this taste of my circus world, where fleeting thrills can be dangerous and life comes three balls for a nickel. I’ll be inserting more chapters into my other e-books, Once Upon a More Enlightened Time and Politically Correct Holiday Stories.

The complete version of Honk Honk, My Darling will soon be available as an e-book, a paperback print-on-demand book, and as a podcast featuring yours truly. You can find all these at the website, http://www.rexkoko.com.

And remember what e. e. cummings wrote:



“Damn everything, but the circus!”



--JFG





CHAPTER 1

Dealing from the Bottom



When world-renowned flier Reynaldo Carlozo began whacking the soles of my feet, I was having a nice roll in the hay. If only I hadn’t been there by my lonesome, something worthwhile might’ve come from this whole larry. As it was, this was just another rude awakening in a predictably dingy locale.

“Koko! Koko!” he barked. “Come on, wake up! Get out of there!”

When he was up, working the trapeze, Carlozo was the epitome of control, strength and grace, a fearless deity in a spangly leotard, Icarus’ younger, better-looking brother. “The King of the Air”, he was billed. Any time other than up, he was a mean, arrogant kinker with a brushfire temper and a talent for aggravation. If you’re curious, the last time he flew in a show was five years ago.

“What th’ hell’s goin’ on? Let a clown sleep, f’r chrissake.” Waking up was going to be grueling whenever I did it today, but my hangover was quite capable of doing its job without anybody’s help. You think your mouth is dry the morning after? See how it feels after sleeping all night in an elephant stall.

“Get up, get up! We need to talk!” he barked, hitting me on the feet again with the handle of a rake.

“Go away, Carlozo,” I muttered. “I got no business with you.” I curled up and rolled over, pulling a handful of hay up to my chin like a comfy quilt.

His voice was a mix of scorn and challenge. “You have sunk lower than I imagined possible. Filthy, haggard. How do you look at yourself in the mirror in the morning?”

“Simple. I sleep til noon. Now that you know my secret, hit the road and let me get on with my beauty regimen.”

When he didn’t reply, I closed my eyes and tried to quiet my agitated brain. I had just relaxed enough to doze off again, when a torrent of icy water hit me and shrank my skin as tight as a guy wire. “Hey, that bucket was my breakfast!” I jumped up, ready to box him on the ear hole a few times.

“Then here, dig in,” he said and threw it at my midsection, knocking the wind out of me. A good thing, too: while time had forced Carlozo to start dying his hair and mustache the color of tar, I could see through his creamy satin shirt that his barrel chest and muscles were still hard as a sack of rocks. He could’ve pounded me into hash with biscuits on the side, but instead he did something worse: he made me do calisthenics. “Now pep up. Let’s go. Hup hup. Start with jumping jacks.”

Still dripping and addle-brained, I did as I was told and waved my arms like a chicken trying to surrender. “What time is it anyway?”

“Six a.m. Best hour of the morning. I refuse to be associated with someone who would waste the day like you were doing. Now, side stretches, left five times, right five times, here we go.” As I tried lifting my hand over my head, it felt like a hostler’s whip had caught me in the armpit. Carlozo cared nanty for my cry of pain. “Don’t be a baby, you’ll thank me for this later.”

“Not if you don’t give me the chance to write my will,” I moaned. “And what do you mean, ‘associate with me’?”

“I need you to find someone for me,” he said in a brisk tone. “Now, squat thrusts.”

“Bah, impossible.”

“You must do this job for me, I insist!”

“I’m not talking about that,” I said. “Squat thrusts in these shoes?”

“You clowns and your ridiculous feet. All right then, windmills.” We began flapping our arms.

“So, you need a detective. If you want to hire me, come back during office hours.”

“Oh, and when is that?”

“Phone my office and find out.”

“You have a phone?”

Despite the urge to throw up, I said, “Workin’ on it.”

“And while you ‘work on it’,” he mocked, “you operate out of this stable? The great Rex Koko, sleeping in a barn like an animal from the menagerie.”

“It’s not so bad,” I said. “Daisy tried to turn this into a hothouse for growing orchids, but her visitors kept eating them.”

“I don’t doubt it,” Carlozo said, “although the fresh greens might do you good. Pasty skin, stringy hair, flab everywhere…I shudder to think what you might be eating. Awful.”

“Offal?”

“You agree?”

“Not with offal,” I said.

“It’s not awful?”

“Hell, it’s terrible.”

“Roots and beef blood,” he said with conviction.

“Hey, I’m the guy who should be cursing here, Carlozo.”

“What are you talking about? Now, run in place, hup hup. That’s the best diet in the world: root vegetables and beef blood. Everything you need. Every day, roots and blood. If you’d watched your diet, you wouldn’t be in agony now.”

“No, if I’d locked my door, I wouldn’t be….Aaaah! Oww!”

“This is just running in place! How hard can it be? Swing your arms a bit, pick your knees up…”

“Anything else?” I panted sarcastically.

He thought a moment. “Yes. You’re not perspiring enough. Don’t hold back, let yourself go.”

“That’s what I’d been doing,” I protested, “and you showed up… and ruined it.”

Carlozo snorted at me. “Your status is unique here in Top Town. Bottom of the ladder. Lowest of the low. A shambling memento mori…..”

“Listen, smooth talker, I’m flopping…in Daisy’s stall… while she visits relatives in Florida. Don’t let… your dirty mind… make this something…it’s not.”

“Rumors fly around you like the flies in this stall,” Carlozo prodded further. “And not just about the elephant, either. I want you for this job, Koko, because everyone hates you.”

“I’m dying… from the irony,” I gasped as the sweat poured down my ‘paint. I was feeling pain in parts of my body I was sure I’d sold for pin money long ago. “What … where… who….?”

He finally stopped, his hands on his hips, his heels planted firmly together. “I need you to find my wife, Adeline. She’s missing.”

Bent over double, I wheezed for air like a ’25 Duesenburg. “Boots, missing? Next y’gonna tell me… the world revolves…around the sun?”

He glowered at me under his bushy, pitch-black eyebrows. “I don’t like the insinuation.”

“Then you shouldn’t have married it,” I said. I might have been more diplomatic if I weren’t in such pain, but I doubt it. “She gives you the air more often than a tire pump, then she always comes back. Just sit tight and leave your trailer unlocked, Bo Peep.”

Carlozo clenched his jaw, making his mustache fidget. “I feel that will not work this time.”

“Then why drag me into your mess?”

“Are you always so difficult with the people who want to hire you?” he asked.

“Probably not,” I answered, “but some people make it easy. Go find her yourself.”

“NO!” he yelled forcefully. “I am Reynaldo Carlozo! I will not be humiliated again. She is mine, and I want her back. And she needs to feel shame for what she has done to me, paraded through the streets and brought home where she belongs….”

“All right, all right, I get your point, but I still don’t…”

“Enough of this. You will be the one to bring her back. I will pay you $100 for the job. Here is ten to start.”

He took out his roll and peeled off two Lincolns. He tossed them at me disdainfully, but I managed to catch them in midair. At least some of my reflexes were still intact. Ten bucks doesn’t buy what it used to, except maybe the services of a broken-down joey who owes money to the moths in his grouchbag. “Okay, I’ll do it. You’ve bought yourself a bird-dog.”

Carlozo looked satisfied but not pleased. My taking the job may have validated his crummy opinion of me, but he was saddened by more than just my sorry carcass. He was probably feeling sorry for himself that his personal situation had degenerated into this. The poor, misunderstood, tyrannical cuckold.

He raised his chin and explained, “I want you to bring her back so I can kill her.”





About the Author



James Finn Garner is the author of Politically Correct Bedtime Stories, which was a #1 New York Times best-seller, and its two sequels, Once Upon A More Enlightened Time and Politically Correct Holiday Stories, both of which were also NYT best sellers. The first book of this trilogy has been translated into more than 20 languages, and they have all been enjoyed around the world, including China, Japan, and Iran. His other books include Apocalypse WOW! and Recut Madness: Favorite Movies Retold for Your Partisan Pleasure.

His latest work is the novel, Honk Honk, My Darling: A Rex Koko, Private Clown Mystery, which is currently available for all e-readers. This hard-boiled, big-shoed, clown noir thriller is also available in POD editions and as a podcast. Check out the Rex Koko website for more information and a face full of seltzer water.

Garner’s writing has been published in The New York Times, Playboy, TV Guide, Chicago Magazine, and The Wall Street Journal, among others. His radio commentary has been heard on NPR’s Morning Edition and WBEZ’s “Eight Forty-Eight.” He is also a performer and a noted public speaker, especially after a few drinks. Some of these ephemera can be found on his website.

He is the co-founder and custodian of Bardball, a website that aims to resurrect the art of baseball doggerel. Bardball is a fan-driven site that publishes new poetry every weekday during the regular season, and welcomes reader submissions.



Connect with JFG online:



The James Finn Garner website

The JFG Blog

Rex Koko, Private Clown

Bardball, baseball poetry served fresh daily (in season)





