CAUTION: Professionals and amateurs are hereby warned that this play is subject to royalty. It is fully protected by Erin Mallon and the copyright laws of the United States. All rights, including professional, amateur, motion pictures, recitation, lecturing, public reading, radio broadcasting, television and the rights of translation into foreign languages are strictly reserved.

The performance rights to this play are controlled by Erin Mallon and royalty arrangements and licenses must be secured well in advance of presentation. Please note that amateur royalty fees are set upon application in accordance with your producing circumstances. When applying for royalty quotation and license please give us the number of performances intended, dates of production, your seating capacity and admission fee. Royalties are payable with negotiation from Erin Mallon.

Royalty of the required amount must be paid whether the play is presented for charity or gain and whether or not admission is charged. Particular emphasis is laid on the question of amateur or professional readings, permission and terms for which must be secured from Erin Mallon through direct contact.

Copying from this book in whole or in part is strictly forbidden by law, and the right of performance is not transferable.

Due authorship credit must be given on all programs, printing and advertising for the play.

PALE BLUE DOT(S)

Copyright © 2019 by Erin Mallon. All rights reserved.

www.erinmallon.com

Book Cover + Interior Design by Qamber Designs & Media

















“Of all the sciences cultivated by mankind, Astronomy is acknowledged to be, and undoubtedly is, the most sublime, the most interesting, and the most useful.

For, by knowledge derived from this science, not only the bulk of the Earth is discovered…; but our very faculties are enlarged with the grandeur of the ideas it conveys, our minds exalted above [their] low contracted prejudices.”

James Ferguson, 1757











Pale Blue Dot(s) had its first production in an educational setting at Adelphi University Performing Arts Center/AUPAC (Blyth Daylong, Executive Director) in Garden City, NY in October 2019. Nicholas Petron was Chair of the Theatre Department. The play was Directed by Maggie Lally and Assistant Directed by Jess Kreisler with Dramaturgy by Rachel Hernstat, Set by John McDermott, Assistant Scenic Design by Matthew Pezzulich, Light/Projection by Michael Lounsbery and Akvinder Somal Kaur, Sound by Holly Rose Romero, Costumes by Nick Bernard, Production Stage Management by Carrie McElroy and Assistant Stage Management by Amy Costa.

The cast was as follows:

Fred ........................................................................ Sophia Carvalho

Ronnie ................................................................... Mili Shrestha

Lorena ....................................................................Mishka Rehak

Max ......................................................................... Emma Scholl

Sonya ..................................................................... Katherine Cusack

Clarice.....................................................................Nicole Sponaugle

G.C. ......................................................................... Robert Kelly

David Bowie/Elon Musk ................................ Hayley Franke











CHARACTERS

FRED – (Winifred Campbell) USA, NASA astronaut, the commander. This is her third mission on the International Space Station. An extremely hard worker who hides her weaknesses and “flaws.”

RONNIE – (Veronika Cruz) USA, NASA astronaut (by way of Nepal and Cuba). This is her first mission on the International Space Station, though she’s trained a very long time. Antagonistic, misunderstood, a devout atheist.

LORENA – (Lorena Krasnova) RUSSIA, cosmonaut (call her an astronaut and you’ll regret it!). This is her second mission on the International Space Station. A devoutly religious person who believes deeply in science AND creationism. Speaker of five languages.

MAX (Maxine Fineberg) – USA, NASA astronaut, this is her second mission on the International Space Station. An adventure seeker and constant traveler who sucks the marrow out of life.

SONYA – CANADA, not an astronaut, an every-day citizen in space courtesy of winning the Tesla/SpaceX “Citizens in Space” contest, an eternal optimist (at least on the outside), has never known what to “do” with her life, hides a surprisingly deep well of rage beneath all her polite positivity.

CLARICE – USA, not an astronaut, an every-day citizen in space courtesy of winning the Tesla/SpaceX “Citizens in Space” contest (which she was entered against her will), socially inexperienced, a talented and unique musician who hasn’t been allowed to explore her gifts.

G.C. (aka Ground Control) – USA, a “good” southern boy working out of Mission Control in Houston, just took up smoking, wants desperately to be a feminist but is struggling with it, has a 1960s vibe right down to his immovable slicked back hair and black-rimmed glasses.

DAVID BOWIE – UK, one of the most influential musicians of the 20th century, now living his best afterlife amongst the stars, a philosopher of sorts, all- knowing.

ELON MUSK – SOUTH AFRICA, founder of Tesla and SpaceX, a man whose ideas are so radical he simply “must be joking” but he’s never joking, has a desperate desire to colonize Mars.

TIME

a few years from now.

PLACE

The International Space Station and other spacey places.











This play is dedicated to Maggie Lally, a beautiful artist, director, teacher and friend. She commissioned this play, encouraged it, nurtured it, and expertly steered the ship during its first journey to the stage.











Scene One


Darkness

A tight spotlight on a young man’s face, intently watching something. He smokes and speaks into a microphone with a southern accent.

G.C.: 3...2...1... Booster Ignition. And… LIFTOFF.

Light cut out on the man. Rumbling roaring noise.

Lights up on six women seated in a tight formation. They’re awash in oranges and yellows and reds. They seem tied down. They’re rattled. They’re jostled. An extended physical group convulsion of sorts as they ascend.

They all look left.

They all look straight ahead.

Their heads are slammed back into their seats.

Fiery sounds. Chaotic, metallic sounds. Up, up, up.

Rattling, rattling, rattling. Until engines cut off and…

Silence.

The world is suddenly black and full of stars. A moment of nothingness. Then…

Gentle space music starts to play, like the kind you might hear at a planetarium or in a documentary about stars.

One by one, the women slowly start to unbuckle themselves. They lift out of their seats without even trying. Their bodies billow. Float. Like baby deer learning to walk on ice, they begin exploring how their bodies operate in this new world.

They can’t help it, they giggle. They laugh. They’re really here.

The women continue to explore in slow motion.

We hear a voice.

David Bowie (voice only)

Hello audience. Welcome to our show. This is God speaking. Kidding, it’s David Bowie. Close enough though, eh? Hahahaha. My apologies. Humility is important. (slipping into singing mode) “Put on your red shoes and dance the blues!” Ahem. “Space. The final frontier.” Forget I said that. That’s copywrited. Copywritten? “A long time ago in a galaxy, far, far-“Nope. Also copywritten, and it’s actually not a long time ago. It’s a few years from now. Three or four years from now? Ten? Twenty? I suppose that’s up to us, how long it takes before we get our acts together and – (quick beat). Point is, it’s only ever now. That’s the only entry point ever available to us. The present moment, the NOW – (quick beat) Why am I trying to be fancy? You didn’t come to hear a fancy fellow philosophize. You came to see astronauts! Not only astronauts, but lady astronauts! So, look at them. Seriously. Look at them floating! Because they won’t be doing this the whole play. Believe me, you don’t want them to do this the whole play. You may think you do, but you don’t. IknowIknow, “but there’s no gravity in space, David! They need to be floating at all times!” I hear you and I appreciate your attention to detail. However, imagine watching them do this…

The women’s slow motion microgravity exploration gets even more absurd for a moment.

… for an hour and a half all in the name of realism. Right? You deserve better. I’ll make a deal with you. We will give you several super sexy select moments of wondrous weightlessness throughout the play if you will suspend your disbelief while seeing actors’ mortal, earthly feet mostly and necessarily glued to the floor throughout the show. Deal? (quick beat) Brilliant! Because… we have a story to tell you.

The music cuts out and the women snap into regular motion. They immediately start busying themselves with tasks around the ship. All except for two of them (Sonya and Clarice) who stand in the middle looking lost and confused.

Sonya: Oooh look at them go. Busy little bees, huh?

Clarice: Yeah.

Sonya: What do you think they’re doing?

Clarice: Astronaut stuff?

Sonya: Should we help?

Ronnie: (passing by during her tasks)

No we do not need your “help.”

Sonya: <Rawr animal sound> She’s-

Max: Uh oh, did she just <rawr animal sound>?

Ronnie: “She’s” what? What is “she”?

Ronnie’s up in Sonya’s face.

Sonya: Uh, uh uh - a really pretty and powerful woman who’s making huge strides in the field of science? Yay! Hooray for you!

Sonya claps. Alone.

Silence.

Ronnie bursts into tears.

Sonya: Oh my goodness, I’m sorry, what did I-

Ronnie: (through tears)

I’m just so happy!

Sonya: This is you happy?

Ronnie: The best moment of my whole entire life!

Sonya: (so confused)

Ok! Great!

Max takes Ronnie in her arms.

Max: You’re here. You made it. I’m psyched for you.

They continue to hug. Clarice taps Max’s shoulder.

Clarice: Hi. Um. I have some questions for the captain. Are you the captain?

Fred: Alright, everyone circle up.

Max: No, I’m-

Sonya: (whispering)

I think she’s the captain.

Clarice: That one?

Fred: Yes. “That one.” This one. Me. Welcome aboard the International Space Station, I’m Commander Fred Campbell. This is Mission number -

Sonya: Oh I love boys’ names for girls! I want to name my future daughter Jerome. Or maybe Herb. What’s Fred short for? Frederica? Freida? Frederodontosaurus?

Silence.

Whaaat? A bunch of scientists and no one’s up for some dinosaur humor? Fred

Winifred.

Sonya: Huh?

Fred: My full first name is Winifred.

Sonya: Oh yeah, stick with Fred.

Fred: As commander, I’d like to take a moment to celebrate this special moment in history. Thanks to the SpaceX “Citizens in Space” contest…

Ronnie, Max, Lorena: (disgusted)

Ugh! Musk!

Fred: (ignoring them)

…this is the first time two everyday citizens have traveled to space.

Ronnie: With no training whatsoever. (sarcastic) Yay!

Fred: AND we’re very pleased to have both…

Lorena: Are we? Are we pleased?

Fred: (checking clipboard)

Clarice?

Clarice raises her hand.

Fred: Hi there. And… (checking clipboard again) So-nya onboard with us.

Sonya: It’s actually pronounced Sawn-ya. Rhymes with yawn-ya. Can I tell a joke? My dino attempt bombed a moment ago.

Fred: No thank you. Now, let’s dive into some of the basic protocols we all need to be aware of while onboard.

Max: What harm is there in a joke, Fred? I’d like to hear a joke. Anyone else want to hear her joke?

Sonya: Full disclosure, it’s not MY joke. I saw it on a Valentine’s Day card in Rite Aid a few weeks ago. But it’s super funny and space related and kind of romantic actually and I think you’ll all enjoy it.

Beat.

Fred: Fine. Tell it. Be quick.

Sonya: Yay! Ok here I go. Ok. So on the cover of the card is this really sweet picture of Saturn with a smiley face. And Saturn has this cartoony word-bubble coming out of his mouth and these sexy bedroom eyes like he’s talking to his beloved. Because, well, it’s a Valentine’s Day card. So. Saturn’s word bubble says: (she drops into a dramatic performance of Saturn’s voice) “Soon… there’ll only be seven planets left.”

Beat.

(back to her regular voice)

Someone needs to say “Why?”

Ronnie: Does someone say “why” in the greeting card?

Sonya: No. But it works better in a live re-telling if someone says “why.”

Max: “Why?”

Sonya: Ok, well let me start over and then you jump right in when it’s time. Ahem. So Saturn says: (dramatic Saturn voice) “Soon… there’ll only be seven planets left.”

Max: “Why?”

Dramatic pause.

Sonya/Fred: “‘Cause I’m gonna destroy Uranus.”

Clarice: Whoa!!

Lorena: Oh dear Heaven.

Max: Tasteless! I like it!

Ronnie: Ugh. Why?!

Sonya: Was that tasteless?

Fred: Alright everybody-

Sonya: I’m sorry! I didn’t mean to be tasteless.

Max: Come on, that was funny.You know that was funny.

Sonya: (to Fred) How did you know the punchline?

Fred: I’ve heard all the Uranus jokes. All of them. Every single one of them.

Sonya: (disappointed) Oh.

Beat.

Fred: Sawyna? Am I pronouncing it correctly?

Sonya: Yes, thank you.

Fred: I need to make a few things clear.

Sonya: I’m listening, Fred.

Fred: (correcting) Commander.

Sonya: Commander

Ronnie: We’re certainly slather- ing on “the commander” sauce today...

Fred: (ignoring Ronnie’s comment) One. we simply cannot have any more Uranus jokes. We just can’t.Sonya: Ok.

Fred: Two: We’re not here to have fun.

Sonya: ‘Course not, but-

Fred: And three: The four of us have an important job to do while we’re on board. We have experiments to conduct. Research. I realize this is a sightseeing adventure of sorts for you and your friend…

Clarice: “Friend” is premature. I just met this person.

Fred: … and we’ll do our best to accommodate you both, but not at the expense of the work we are doing. Understood?

Beat.

Sonya and Clarice: Understood.

Sonya: (quietly to Clarice)

I feel silly. I thought everyone would be telling Uranus jokes up here.

Clarice: Guess not.

Sonya: <does a “mind blown” gesture and sound>

The sound of a male voice comes over the speaker. We see the young man from liftoff in spotlight.

G.C.: This is Houston.

Fred: Houston, this is Commander Campbell.

Sonya: (doing a Tom Hanks/Apollo 13 impression)

“Houston, we have a problem.” Hahaha.

G.C.: WE DO? WE HAVE A PROBLEM?!

Max: (to Sonya): Shhh. Never do that!

Fred: No, Houston, we do not have a problem. Everything is fine.

Sonya: I’m sorry! It just came out! I mean, when will I ever get to say such an iconic phrase again?

G.C.: Then why did you say “Houston, we have a problem?” Commander, please describe the nature of your problem!

Fred: HOUSTON, THERE IS NO PROBLEM!

Beat.

G.C.: Oh. Fantastic. No one likes a problem. (quick beat.) It was a beautiful launch and docking, commander

Fred: Thank you sir. Yes, it was a smooth trip and we’re happy to be here. She sure is beautiful.

G.C.: Who is? Veronika?

Fred: Hm?

G.C.: What?

Fred: What?

G.C.: You said someone “sure is beautiful.”

Fred: I was talking about the Earth. She sure is beautiful from up here.

G.C.: Ah. Of course she is. Yes she certainly is.

Fred: Houston, are you alright?

G.C.: Never better, thank you!

Clarice: (to Max) Are they following protocol right now?

Max: Not exactly, no.

Lorena: (to Ronnie) This new CAPCOM is a bit...

Ronnie: Stifling? Smothering? Suffocating?

Lorena: I was going to say... “bumbling.” You’d think communication skills would be a prerequisite for the job.

Ronnie: You’d think.

Lorena: (taking in Ronnie’s appearance)

You feel ok? You look-

Max: Get the bag Get the bag Get the bag!

Lorena: Getting it Getting it Getting it!

Ronnie: <hurling sound>

Ronnie has hurled into the heavy duty barf bag.

Clarice: You know what, I’m also feeling a little…

Max: Get the bag Get the bag Get the bag!

Lorena: Getting it Getting it Getting it!

Clarice: <hurling sound>

Clarice has hurled into another heavy duty barf bag.

Beat.

Fred: Wow. Anyone else?

Sonya: So… is everyone pregnant here, or what?

Fred: ‘Scuse me?

Sonya: Well, you know, anytime a woman hurls in a romance novel, she’s knocked up. Just like how anytime someone coughs in a movie, you know they’re going to die.

Fred coughs. Everyone stares at her.

Fred: What. Tickle in my throat. (quick beat) (to Sonya) It’s quite common for people to feel sick the first few days on orbit. Our bodies need to time to adjust to microgravity.

Sonya: How come you’re not puking then?

Fred: It’s my third mission. Feels more like home than home.

The young man’s voice comes through again.

G.C.: Commander.

Fred: Yes, Houston.

G.C.: Has the vomiting concluded?

Fred: Seems so.

G.C.: Glad to hear it. Get yourselves settled. We’re eager to work on the spacewalk Sim this evening with you and Astronaut Krasnova.

Sonya: Ooh, “spacewalk.” What’s a “spacewalk”?

Ronnie: (to Fred)

Excuse me, what? YOU and Krasnova? Fred, what the hell? I was set to spacewalk!

Fred: There’s been a change in assignments.

Ronnie: You took me off?

Fred: Yes.

Ronnie: And replaced me with yourself?!

G.C.: Astronaut Cruz, you’re now acting as airlock operator.

Ronnie: “Houston,” you’re now acting like an asshole!

Beat.

Oh my- I am so sorry. That was incredibly disrespectful of me. Forgive me. It’s just - I’m finally here. And I can’t- I can’t…

Fred: Max? Can you take Clarice and Sonya on a tour of the ship and show them the basics? How we eat how we bathe how we sleep how we pee how we-

Ronnie: Stab each other in the backs?

Max: Sure. I’ll um - (quick beat) Sure.

Lorena: And I’ll prepare some lunch for us all.

Fred: Thank you both. Spacewalk Sim at 7.

Max, Lorena, Clarice and Sonya make their way to another section of the ship.

G.C.: Astronaut Cruz, we at Mission Control think it’s best if-

Fred: HOUSTON.

G.C.: Signing off. Spacewalk Sim at 7.

Ronnie and Fred are left alone.

Silence.

Ronnie: You know how long it’s taken me to get here. How could you do this?

Fred: Uh-uh, Ronnie. This time, YOU did this. No one else.

Ronnie: What are you-? I didn’t do anything.

Fred: Ron? (quick beat) I know.

Ronnie: You “know” what.

Beat.

Fred: I know.











Scene Two


A man sits in a pleather armchair on a stage. He wears a pleather jacket. Perhaps he even wears pleather pants. He holds a wireless microphone in his hand. He shifts positions often, the most uncomfortably comfortable man you’ve ever seen. He’s just finished giving a presentation.

Elon Musk: Now I will happily take questions. Ooh. Wow. Hands hands hands. What a handsy room we have here. Ha. (scanning the room) You. Yes, you.

He listens a moment.

Aw, you’re a sweetheart, thank you for that. Hmm… who inspires meeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee. (quick beat) Kanye West obviously. But Fred Astaire mostly. Next question. You.

He listens a moment.

Oh you really should. Now’s a great time of year to visit. Most people don’t realize that we have penguins in South Africa, but we do. (listening) Of course! The best penguins! So much better than any penguins you’ll find in those cold “pole” places. They’re called Jackass penguins. (listening) Of course I’m serious. I’m always serious. Scientific name is Spheniscus demersus, which means “plunging wedge.” And believe me, these bird-wedges are plunging. Rapidly.

Populations are steadily decreasing. Climate change is real, friends! So write your checks to the penguins, and say “pee-off” to plastic and “fudge you” to fossil fuels – I don’t think it’s right to curse when ladies are present… hi there (he winks at someone) (listening) They call them Jackass penguins because they make a sound like this. <performs a braying noise like a donkey> Here’s the thing. I’m a busy man, I can’t spend this whole sessions talking about penguins. Moving on. You.

He listens a moment.

I do, yes. Yesyesyesyesyes. I do think everyday citizens should experience space travel. Not only space travel, but interplanetary travel. (listening a beat) Well all of them, obviously. We should go to all of them. Even poor baby Pluto who’s been demoted to a dwarf planet. Can yoiu imagine? For decades being told you were a big boy planet, then to be suddenly informed that you were in fact a little dwarf baby planet the whole time and you always will be? Here’s the thing. To be considered a full-fledged planet, you have to 1. Orbit the sun, 2. Be big enough to become round due to the force of your own gravity and 3.

Dominate your neighborhood. Pluto was demoted because it doesn’t dominate its neighborhood. It’s supposed to sweep up asteroids and comets and any other debris that gets in its way, but it doesn’t. Like a punk, it lets its own orbit push it around. Do you let your own orbit push you around? Here’s the thing. The Space Station is cute. Adorable even. I love that we have a constant human presence orbiting Earth. But what is it actually doing at this point besides going in literal circles in the name of “experiments?” I’m done with experiments. It’s time for progress. It’s time to dominate the neighborhood of motherfluffin outer space and the first next step is a mission to Marrrrrrrrrrrrrsss. <barks like a rottweiler> Oh, the animal in me just gets so excited. <a single, final bark>

Beat.

That’s right, puppies. We’re going to Mars.











Scene Three


In the transition music, Max, Clarice, Sonya and Lorena “float” to the kitchen area. When the music snaps off they move regularly, as if on Earth (this will be the norm throughout the play). Lorena slaps a water bag in Sonya and Clarice’s hands.

Lorena: Here. Hydrate.

Lorena immediately returns to preparing the food.

Clarice: Thank you

Sonya: Ooh an accent! How did I not notice your accent before?

Lorena: I imagine it’s hard for ears to hear when the mouth is so incredibly loud.

Sonya: Oh, a burn! That was a burn, huh? Wait. Do I talk a lot? Max, where’s she from? Your name is Lorena, right? Lorena, where are you from?

Lorena: Russia.

Clarice spits her water.

Clarice: RUSSIA?!

Lorena: Yes. Russia.

Max: Clarice! Please don’t… spit your water in zero gravity. It’s not sanitary.

Clarice: I’m sorry!

Max: It’s ok, you didn’t know.

Sonya: Ooooh look at that! Pretty, spitty water bubbles floating in the breeze.

Sonya tries to catch the water beads on her tongue, like snowflakes.

Max: Sonya?

Max shakes her head “no.”

Lorena: (from her place readying the food)

Do you all like refried beans?

Silence.

I’m making burritos.

Beat.

Nothing? No one can answer me?

Clarice: Is no one else concerned that there is a RUSSIAN onboard?!

Max: Clarice. What are you-?

Sonya: (dropping everything and getting close to Clarice)

Alright. This is the International Space Station. INTERNATIONAL. So there are multiple NAH-shunz INTER-acting. What did you expect? Only Americans? Are you only comfortable when surrounded by your “fellow Americans”? I’ll ask you again. Do. You. Like. Refried. Beans.

Clarice: Sure, yes.

Sonya: I’m actually Canadian. But refried beans are great, thank you.

Lorena: Very good. And you eat beef?

Clarice: Sure, yes.

Sonya: Did you hear me say I’m Canadian? But yes, beef is also great, thank you.

Lorena: Very good.

Lorena returns to preparing their food.

Sonya: (hushed to Clarice)

Ahhh I’m a little nervous now.

Clarice: (hushed)

Because she’s Russian and obviously working on sabotaging American efforts in space, so clearly this mission we’re on is doomed?

Max: Clarice.

Clarice: What.

Max: That’s nonsense. (quick beat) What are you afraid of?

Clarice: Everything. Every single thing.

Max: Ok… Well, you don’t have to be afraid of Lorena. We’re all in this together.

Sonya: (hushed)

Oh, I wasn’t saying I was afraid of Lorena. Just her accent! As soon as I hear an accent, my brain immediately implodes. All I can hear are the fascinating, foreign blubbity blub sounds and none of the actual words the person is saying. And Russian accents? Gosh, they’re the best slash worst! All the hhhhchh’s and the rrrrrrrah’s? Any time she speaks, my focus is gonna be down the pooper. (full- voice) Oh hey, that’s something I’ve been meaning to ask! How do we poop up here?

Lorena: (to Max)

You were supposed to give the full tour.

Max: I know, but -

Ronnie passes through the kitchen.

Ronnie: You didn’t teach them how astronauts go potty? I’m on my way there now. Do the kiddies want to come watch and learn?

Sonya: (getting up)

Yes actually, thank you so much!

Ronnie: That was sarcasm.

Ronnie continues on until she’s out of sight.

Sonya: I thought astronauts would be nicer.

Clarice: I think they’re under, like, a lot of pressure. And our presence probably isn’t helping. (to Max) Can you take us back? (to Sonya) We’re ready to go back right? I’m ready to go back.

Sonya: To Earth? Hell no! I’m loving this.

Max: (to Lorena) Clarice wasn’t feeling well, so I cut the tour short. Felt like I should put some food in her, stat.

Clarice: Put food in my what?

Max: Huh?

Clarice: You said you should put some food in my…

Max: “Food in her - Comma! - stat!” Meaning fast. I wanted to get food in you fast.

Clarice: Oh. Oh. Ok. That makes more sense. Sorry for being so- I’m just not really used to being so- And this is all so- (quick beat) I need to self soothe. Is it ok if I self soothe?

Max: (confused)

Um. Sure, yeah.

Clarice pulls a tiny instrument out of her pocket and plays a quick scale. It only takes a few seconds. They all watch/listen.

Clarice: Thank you. I feel better now.

Sonya: That was…

Max: Adorable. You’re adorable.

Clarice: Thank you.

Sonya: I’m sensing energy between you two. Is there energy between you two?

Max and Clarice: No?

Sonya: Ok! Is it true astronauts drink their own pee?

Clarice: Of course not, Sonya!

Max: Actually, sort of?

Clarice: What?

Sonya: What do you-?

Max: See that machine over there? It converts all the liquids we use up here back into pure drinking water. And yes, that includes our urine. So. Right now…

Sonya: We’re drinking our own…

Clarice spits her water again.

Clarice: Peeeeeee! Ohmygosh! Gross! Eh! Arrrr. Bleh!

Clarice tries to wipe her tongue clean of the water. Sonya enjoys the floating water beads again.

Max: Alright alright, everybody relax…

Lorena zooms in and takes Clarice and Sonya under each arm.

Clarice: (wary)

What are you doing?

Lorena: Soothing you. I’ve been told my accent is soothing. Do you agree?

Clarice: It’s… fine.

Sonya: I’m sorry, I don’t know what you’re saying.

Lorena: (exaggerated stage whisper)

I heard you whispering about my accent before and all the covert Russian sabotage I’m doing over here with the burritos. A word of advice? Whispering on a spaceship is unnecessary. (really over-doing the H’s and R’s) Everyone hears everything. You’re always being listened to.

Clarice: What do you mean?

Lorena: (loudly) Houston?

The man’s voice comes over the speaker.

G.C: Yes, Cosmonaut Krasnova.

Lorena: See? Always listening. Just saying hello, Houston. Spasiba.

G.C.: No, Spasi-BAH! (quick beat) Hm. That didn’t really work, did it? I was trying to do the thing we Americans do when we say, “No. Thank YOU.” But I guess it doesn’t translate.

Lorena: Not a problem, Houston. I appreciate your efforts to connect cross-culturally. (to Clarice and Sonya) You two? Do better.

Lorena returns to the prep station.

G.C.: Aw. That’s really nice, thank you. I mean spasiba. Also, gracias. Is Astronaut Cruz there? Yes? No? Did I hear her say she was going to the bathroom? If she’s there… gracias. Have I covered all my cultural bases? How do you say thank you in Canadian?

Sonya: Is he serious?

G.C.: No? No problem. That was just a bit of humor that actually didn’t create an ounce of delight in anyone. (Canadian accent) SORE-eee! How was that for Canadian? Ha ha ha. (quick beat). Ok, I’m going to go. Houston signing off for now.

Beat.

Max: It’s his first mission as CapCom. Short for “Capsule Communicator.” An acronym holdover from back when we travelled in capsules and – well, he’s new and he’s… he’s trying.

Clarice: How did you get the job of explaining everything to us?

Max: Lucky I guess? As commander, Fred has a lot of extra duties. She can’t be explaining all the basics to our “citizens in space.”

Clarice: (hushed)

And Lorena is too busy taking down your operation from the inside.

Max: Seriously, Clarice, you’ve got to stop that.

Lorena: I have ears, my friend.

Sonya: So. Maxwell House! Get me up to speed on all the drama-lama. Did Fred steal Ronnie’s spacewalking spot because Ronnie’s such a biotch?

Max: Can we actually not call me Maxwell House?

Sonya: K. How about TJ Maxx?

Max: Nah.

Sonya: Maximum Security?

Max: Nope.

Sonya: Alright, no nicknames for Maxi Pad.

Max: I, uh… (quick beat) Anyway. Ronnie is not a “biotch.” And I’m sure there was a good reason Fred took her off the spacewalk. The two of them are just- (quick beat) Alright, come here, bring it in, bring it in.

Clarice and Sonya huddle close to Max

Lorena: (warning)

I wouldn’t gossip if I were you…

Max: (ignoring her, hushed)

Fred and Ronnie did most of their training together. But Fred got sent up on missions and Ronnie was held back. Bunch of times. Family issues or something? I thought with Ron getting up here after all this time she could finally relax and be happy… But ya know, Fred’s being weird too? It’s like they’re both suddenly at each other’s throats and I don’t know what-

Ronnie and Fred enter, from different directions.

Max: (catching herself)

Fred! Ronnie! Hey! Hi! Hey!

Fred and Ronnie: Hey.

Lorena: Food’s ready!

The astronauts grab their food and water bags from Lorena. Clarice and Sonya follow their lead.

It’s silent a few moments while they stand around and eat, each woman staring straight ahead, a burrito in one hand, a water bag in the other. Bites and sips… Bites and sips…

After a little while…

Clarice: So.... Lorena... Did you… always want to be an astronaut?

Lorena: Cosmonaut.

Sonya: Huh?

Lorena: I’m from Russia so I’m a cosmonaut.

Sonya: I’m from Canada so I’m a… Maple-Leaf-o-naut. (quick beat) Sorry I don’t know how to play this game.

Fred: Russians are called cosmonauts.

Sonya: Every country has it’s own name for astronaut?

Fred: No. Just Russia.

Clarice: Why?

Lorena: (losing it a bit)

Who was the first person in space?

Fred: Easy, Lorena.

Sonya: Lance Armstrong!

Max: ENH! <Note: negative buzzer sound> Bicyclist.

Ronnie: And doping scandal-ist.

Lorena: You mean Neil?

Sonya: Yes, yes I meant Neil! Oops.

Lorena: No! It was not Neil! It was not Neil Armstrong! It was not! (to Clarice) You! First person in space!

Clarice: Me?

Lorena: You!

Clarice: Uh… Uh… Uh… Buzz? Buzz Aldrin?

Lorena: Yuri Gagarin.

Sonya: Bless you.

Clarice: Who?

Lorena: Yuri Gagarin! The first man in space! A Russian. You see? We won! We beat you! We got here first! Not you!

Clarice: So competitive.

Fred: Can we please-?

Clarice: Her people are so competitive.

Lorena: My “people”? Who was the first woman in space?

Clarice: (flustered)

Sally… Um, Sally…

Sonya: Field!

Clarice: Yes, Sally Field Sally Field! Yes!

Max: (Forrest Gump voice)

“Mama always said… life is like a box of-“

Lorena: No, it was not Sally RIDE.

Clarice: Ride, Ride, right I meant Sally Ride!

Lorena: It was Valentina Tereshkova! Russian. Are you spotting the pattern here? Russian Russian Russia Russian Russian.

Ronnie: Alright, simmer down girl, you mentioned TWO Russians, not five.

Lorena: (on a roll) Cosmonaut is our word. A Russian word. We got here first. We earned the word. So what, once Americans made it here we should then switch our word? Why? To match you? The USA?!

Sonya: I’m Canadian. The neutral northern neighbor with health care and hot prime ministers?

Lorena: (to Fred)

I can’t speak with these people.

Clarice: Your people did horrible things in the race to space.

Lorena: And yours didn’t?

Clarice: Like sending a stray dog up to die in a tin can?

Lorena: Your people “trained” chimpanzees to go into space by giving them electric shocks until they ripped out their catheters and died of dysentery.

Max: Ham and Enos?

Fred: Can we not do this right now, please?

Clarice: Your people lost humans in space and covered it up!

Lorena: Conspiracy theory! Your people hired Nazi scientists to be NASA researchers! Your people considered NUKING the MOON.

Max: Whaaaat?

Fred: Can we stop “Your People-ing” each other?

Sonya: This is very educational. Up until this moment I thought Russia was only responsible for those creepy nesting dolls. And the pee-pee tape. And electing your presidents.

Fred: NO POLITICS IN SPACE!

Silence.

Max: How’s the burrito? We all like the burrito?

ALL but Max: (ad libbed)

Great, yeah. Delish. Mmmmm. Well done, Lorena. Etc.

Silence while they eat. After a few moments…

Sonya: So. There’s like a 50/50 chance we’re gonna die up here, yeah?

Fred: Oh my-

Ronnie: Come on!

Lorena: What in the-

Max: Now why on earth would you say that?

Sonya: I dunno… The Challenger, Columbia…

Ronnie: No! You do not bring up tragic flights while on a mission! What is wrong with these people? You think we come up here with our fingers crossed? That’s not how astronauts deal with risk.

Sonya: (showing her crossed fingers)

Huh. That’s how I deal with everything.

Ronnie: What are you doing here?

Sonya: (proudly)

I won a contest!

Ronnie: That’s right, you and your friend here won a contest!

Clarice: Friend is premature!

Lorena and Max: Ugh, Musk!

Ronnie: You didn’t earn this. You didn’t work for this. The four of us? We trained our asses off to be here! (aimed at Fred) Some of us more than others.

Sonya: (innocently)

Well maybe you should have just entered the contest instead.

Ronnie: Excuse me?

Sonya: I don’t mean any disrespect. Just… clearly, all that work you did wasn’t necessary. Because all I did was write an essay about how sad I am on the inside and here I am. (proud) “Everyday citizen in space!”

Ronnie: Lord give me strength.

Lorena: Lord give me strength?

Ronnie: Come on Lorena, it’s just a saying.

Lorena: A saying you directed to the Lord Jesus Christ.

Ronnie: <scoffs> Lorena? There have been many “lords” throughout history besides your boy, JC. For all you know, I was talking to… Lord Faarquad.

Clarice: From Shrek?

Ronnie: Or or or, “Lord”… um-

Lorena: It’s fine, Ronnie. I just find it interesting that in a moment of stress you called out for His guidance. Perhaps you need Him more than you realize.

Ronnie: My god, Lorena, I didn’t -

Lorena: My God is right. And why do you always say my name like this?

Ronnie: Like what?

Lorena: Like it’s displeasing to you. (mimicking Ronnie) <scoffs> “Lorena?” “Come on, Lorena!” “My God, Lorena.”

Ronnie: Will you get off my-

Fred: NO POLITICS IN SPACE NO ARGUING IN SPACE NO TRYING TO CONVERT PEOPLE TO YOUR RELIGION IN SPACE I GET ENOUGH OF THIS AT HOME SO PLEASE SHUT THE HELL UP!!!!

Silence.

They all stare at Fred.

Fred: (quietly)

That was ineffective.

Clarice: Seemed pretty effective to me.

Fred: And inaccurate. No one tries to convert me at home.

Lorena: I’m not trying to convert anyone.

Fred: I know. It’s just… the arguing, I can’t – (quick beat) I apologize for the outburst. Won’t happen again.

Lorena: You’re allowed.

Fred: I’m actually not, so. Please accept my apologies.

Silence a few moments.

They return to eating.

Sonya: Can I just ask one more thing?

Ronnie: Oh boy.

Fred: Of course Sonya.

Sonya: If something goes wrong we ejaculate, right?

Fred: Sorry what?

Sonya: We ejaculate to safety?

Fred: Eject eject!

Sonya: Right eject!

Max: Hahahaha, oh my god I love it.

Ronnie: (laughing)

This girl, I swear.

Fred: But no. We can’t just eject into the vastness of space.

Max: Yeah, ejaculating into space is actually a much better idea!

This has set them off into a laugh spiral.

Lorena: Can you imagine? “Danger! Danger!”

Ronnie: Mission: Ejaculate!

They get loud and lewd and full of laughter, pretending to jerk off and ejaculate. Note: there’s freedom here for the actors to ad lib and enjoy.☺ This is the first time we’ve really seen them have a collective experience.

After a few moments of faux ejaculatory joy…

EENG! EENG! EENG! The blaring sound of something going wrong on the ship for real. Suddenly serious, all four astronauts stand up and start busying themselves, without speaking, going to computers and putting on headphones. They know what this is. They know what to do. Sonya and Clarice clearly do not.

Fred: Houston?

G.C.: Campbell, This is Houston. We’ve become aware of an unusually large piece of space debris traveling in direct line with the station. We need to give you an immediate reboost to avoid collision.

Fred: Isn’t this something that you would have been tracking?

G.C.: Somehow our systems didn’t pick up on it until just now.

We hear 4 faint seconds of what sounds like the brief the piano chord crescendo from David Bowie’s “Starman”.

Fred reacts to the sound, as if in pain.

Fred: Houston, what is that sound?

G.C. and Ronnie: What sound?

Clarice: It’s a UFO. Ohmygod it’s a UFO.

Sonya: No it’s not!

G.C.: Commander, prepare your team for reboost.

Fred: We’re reboosting right now?

G.C.: Right now. The object is moving at an orbital velocity of 17 kilometers per second.

Four more seconds of the “Starman” piano crescendo. Louder this time.

Fred: (reacting in pain)

Ahhh. Does no one else hear that?

Clarice: IT’S A UFO! WE ALL NEED TO HUNKER DOWN NOW!

Clarice has thrown her arms around Max.

Max: Relax. No hunkering necessary. This is unusual, but not unheard of. And it’s not a “UFO.” At least not the way you’re thinking of it.

Clarice lets go of Max.

Clarice (to Max): Sorry, I don’t know why I-

Max (to Clarice): It’s fine, it’s fine.

G.C.: We’re about to do a 2.7 meter know why I- per second increase in our Delta V.

Max: You hear that? We’re only going to do a 2.7 meter persecond increase in our Delta V. No big deal.

G.C.: Ladies, ready yourselves for for reboost.

Sonya: Roger that, Houston!

Fred: (to Sonya)

Please. No. Do not communicate directly with Houston.

Sonya: Sorry. Got excited. Space stuff!

Ronnie: Did he just call us ladies? Hey! Houston!-

Fred: I am the only one who should be communicating directly with Houston!

Lorena: This is not the time to give mission control lessons in feminism.

GC: Astronaut Cruz’s assessment is fair. I will curb my use of “ladies” in the future. Thank you for making me more aware.

Piano chord crescendo from “Starman” gets louder!

Fred: (clutching her head)

Houston!

G.C.: Prepping for the boost…

Clarice is panicking.

Max: Breathe, breathe.

G.C.: Astronauts stand by.

Fred, Max, Ronnie and Lorena: Standing by!

Claire: Whatdowedowhatdowedo?

Max: Just stand in the center here with us and be still. It’ll be a very gentle thrust, you’ll see.

Sonya: Oh man, I can never resist a thrust joke.

The women gather in a group.

Piano chord crescendo from “Starman” reaches its peak!

Fred: <excruciating scream>

Max, Lorena, Ronnie: (ad lib) Jesus Fred, What the hell Freddy, Oh my god, what are you- etc.

G.C.: Engines firing in 5, 4, 3, 2….1.

Silence.

Then… a gentle sound, like a puff of air. All six women are moved forward.

Another gentle puff.

All six women are moved forward. One more puff.

All six women are moved forward.

We hear the faint sound of the piano chords moving away into the distance.

G.C.: Reboost complete.

Beat.

Sonya: That’s it?

Lorena: That’s it. We successfully moved to a higher orbit and dodged the debris.

Sonya: Well that was disappointing. All that build up and then –

Ronnie: What. You were hoping for a catastrophe?

Sonya: No, I - No. (quick beat) But a little excitement never hurt anyone.

Ronnie: Uh. Yeah it did.

Fred is sitting, her head in her hands.

Ronnie: Fred.

Beat.

Ronnie: Fred. (quick beat) Fred!

Fred: Yeah, Fred. What.

Lorena: You ok?

Fred: Fine, yeah.

Max: What the hell just happened?

Fred: That music. Felt like it was in my skull.

Ronnie: Music?

Beat.

They’re all staring at her.

Fred: No one else heard the…? (quick beat). Forget it. Good work team. Spacewalk Sim at 7.

Fred exits.

They all watch her go.











Scene Four


Later that night. Clarice has changed into sleep clothes. She’s alone. Well, not really alone. She stands in front of a window showcasing the Earth below. She watches her in quiet awe.

Note: throughout the scene, it’s almost impossible to tear their eyes from the beauty of Earth. Occasionally they steal glances at each other. And when they’re really brave, they may even lock eyes.

After a few moments, Max approaches, unseen.

Max: (Hannibal Lecter voice)

Hello Clarice.

Clarice: (startled)

Oh! Gosh! Hi! I was just-

Max: Earthgazing?

Clarice: Yeah.

Max: It’s the best, isn’t it?

Clarice: Yeah. It’s amazing. (quick beat) Where are you from on there?

Max: On the Earth? I’ve never had a permanent address.

Clarice: You’ve never had a permanent address?

Max: Nope. The Earth’s my home and I want to experience as much of her as I possibly can. So I bounce and land. Land and bounce. Always have. (quick beat) So were your parents Silence of the Lambs fans, (Hanibal Lecter voice) Clarice?

Clarice: No. Light fans.

Max: ...?

Clarice: Sorry. Fans of light. Optical engineers. Clarice means “bright and clear, shining and famous.” All the things they are and I’m not.

Max: Oh, I’m sure that’s not-

Clarice: They built the Hubble Space Telescope.

Max: They what now??? (quick beat) Your parents BUILT the Hubble Space telescope.

Clarice: They were part of that team, yeah. Worked on the Voyager 1 space probe too.

Max: That’s incredible!

Clarice: Yup. Can we talk about something else?

Max: Sure. (quick beat) I’m sorry, no, we can’t. Voyager 1! That means they’re responsible for the Pale Blue Dot photo! You know, the one where the Earth is just the tiniest speck of pale blue light seen from 4 billion miles away?

Clarice: Yup.

Max: (going to computer)

Here, let’s pull it up on my-

Clarice: Please don’t. I’ve seen it a hundred times. Makes me feel like shit.

Max: What? Why?

Clarice: The fact that I’m the tiniest speck of a human imaginable, living and worrying my life away on the tiniest pale blue dot imaginable in the middle of an unfathomably massive, never-ending completely un-knowable universe? That makes me feel so...worthless. And... pointless.

Max: Really? Gosh it makes me feel so... liberated.

Clarice: Hm.

Silence.

Max: I’m surprised you’re so - It just seems like with parents who- (quick beat) You’re pretty fearful of space, huh? And paranoid about Russians.

Clarice: It’s all I heard growing up. How we had to beat the Russians. How the Russians were slime balls and not to be trusted and – (quick beat) Why am I living my life to please them? And why do I feel like telling you all my business?

Max: I don’t-

Clarice: (on a roll)

They’re awesome and they’re awful. They invade my brain. I don’t know if I have any actual original thoughts or if all the noise in my head is just their recycled ideas pinging around over and over.

Max: Well, what do you-

Clarice: (still going, building steam)

I didn’t want to enter this ridiculous “contest.” They -

Max: Shhh. Close your eyes.

Clarice: What?

Max: Go on. Close your eyes.

She does.

Max: When you think of joy. What immediately comes to your mind.

Clarice: Why are we-?

Max: Joy.

Beat.

Clarice: Music. The only thing I’ve ever truly loved or cared about is music.

Max: Oh. Yeah. Before, what was that little thing you played?

Clarice: A six-hole ocarina. I keep it in my pocket at all times. I also play the zither - more specifically a guzheng.

Max: Was that English?

Clarice: I’m a fan of the obscure. Why play the piano when you can play a 6-hole ocarina or a guzheng, ya know?

Max: Can you play for me?

Clarice: Now?

Max: Well, yeah. You said it’s always in your pocket, yeah?

Clarice: Yeah, but I only did that before because I was feeling so...

Max: Stressed?

Clarice: Yeah. And now, I’m not feeling...

Max: Stressed.

Clarice: No. Not stressed.

Max: Good. So maybe you could play for joy? Clarice ...

Max: No rush. I’m not going anywhere.

They smile at each other.

They turn to look back out the window. Silence as they gaze.

Clarice: Sorry. I’m just nervous I think.

Max: Around me?

Beat.

Clarice: Oh! No, I meant-

Max: Oh, I’m sorry-

Clarice: Just, like being here-

Max: Right, yeah, I didn’t mean to-

Clarice: No no, it’s fine!

Max: That was really- There’s no reason why I should make you nervous, I don’t know why I-

Clarice: No, I mean, you should make me nervous! And you do! You do! Gosh, you’re so kind! And smart! And adventurous! And impressive! And yeah, I’m finding I actually have a hard time looking directly at you because you’re so-! And god, you’re so-! Not to mention you’re so-! I don’t think I’ve ever met someone who’s so...

Silence.

Max: I think you’re... “so”... too.

Clarice: You do?

Max: I do.

Beat.

I um – (quick beat) I’d like to kiss you now. Is that um-? Would that be- Clarice

Yes. That would be...

They lean in to kiss.

Just then, Sonya zooms in wearing space jammies.

Sonya: (singing)

Ground control to Major Tom! Take your protein pills and put your jammies on!

She does a space dance.

Clarice: Lord help us, she’s wearing space jams.

Sonya: You bet your butt I’m wearing space jams! Gosh, there are so many things people don’t tell you about this experience!

Max: The beauty? The wonder?

Sonya: Sure, but first and foremost the breast buoyancy! The moment I got onboard I tore my bra off.

Clarice: She did. I was there.

Sonya: Well who needs it anymore, right? Gosh, it’s so nice to be... lifted like this. Not only my breasts, but everything! I’m convinced that being a woman on the planet is impossible. On Earth everything pulls us dowwwwn, but up here? Gosh up here it’s just…. ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh! For the first time in my life I feel…. ahhhhhhhhhhhhhh. I’ve decided I’m staying up here forever.

Beat.

You two look weird. Are you being weird?

Max and Clarice: No. We’re not being weird.

Sonya: Ok! So how was the spacewalk sim? Oh and… what the hell is a spacewalk sim?

Max: Sim is short for simulation. A… practice. We do sims for everything you can possibly imagine. Spacewalks, repairing punctures in the ship, procedures for returning to Earth’s atmosphere... We even do sims for the event that one of us dies on orbit.

Clarice: Really?

Max: Sure. My mom actually came to mine.

Clarice: To your… death sim?

Max: Yeah. I wanted her to know how things would go down if I ever… went down. It gave her a lot of comfort actually, knowing what to expect. How she would receive the news, what they would do with my body…

Sonya: If there were any body left, that is.

Max: ‘Scuse me?

Sonya: Well you’d explode the exact second your bare skin touched the vacuum of space, yeah?

Max: Total Recall. (quick beat) You watched Total Recall, huh?

Sonya: Yes. I watched Total Recall the night before we launched. You know, for prep. All I have to say is wowza.

Max: That’s a ridiculous and hilarious scene, but yeah no that’s not what would happen if you were somehow sucked into the “vacuum of space.”

Clarice: What would happen?

Max: You really wanna know?

Clarice and Sonya: YES.

Max: Ok. (launching into description with gusto) Well you have to consider the fact that the sun is incredibly violent, yeah? The biggest explosion we could ever imagine. It’s wild when you realize that, isn’t it? That the sweet, loving image we have of the sun smiling down on us on Earth as kids, warming us and nurturing us is actually a violent thermonuclear behemoth constantly tearing and exploding itself, absolutely demolishing and shredding anything in its path? And we need it to keep being that crazy and destructive. We depend on it. (quick beat) Anyway. You’re sucked into the vacuum of space without a spacesuit. Ok. You know that there’s shade and sun happening simultaneously, right? Yeah.

The part of you that’s in the shade is minus 250 degrees. So… freezing. The part of you that’s in the sun is 250 degrees plus. So… boiling. It’s kind of like… lying on a red hot stove with a piece of dry ice on your back. Oh and there’s absolutely no oxygen, so your lungs? Your lungs will be sucked flat instantaneously. But worse than that, your blood is going to boil. So basically what it comes down to is you’re going to burn, freeze, boil, and asfixiate all in under 90 seconds. Bye bye. Game over.

Beat.

Sonya: Now how come you can talk about this but when I brought up the possibility of dying in space everyone acted all offended?

Clarice: Maybe because you don’t seem to take things very seriously?

Sonya: (deadly serious)

What are you talking about? I’m the most serious person I know! Certainly the most serious person on this ship! You have no idea how serious I am! Wait til you see! You’re gonna see out how “serious” I am!

Clarice: …Ok.

Sonya finally notices the Earth below.

Sonya: Oh mother-effin-shitbricks-on-a-dick. Look at that! It’s the Earth!

Clarice: You’re just now noticing her?

Sonya: Her?

Clarice: Yeah, her. She’s a her, don’t you think?

Sonya takes the Earth in for a moment.

Sonya: Yeah, you’re right. Definitely a her.

Ronnie enters, looking ready for bed.

Ronnie: Are you talking about me? I swear to god, if you’re talking about me-

Max: Ron, no one is talking about you.

Ronnie: <scoffs> Yeah, ok. Time for lights out, kiddies. Or do you need Mommy Max to read you a bedtime story first?

Sonya: I wouldn’t turn down a story.

Max: (quietly to Ronnie)

You ok?

Ronnie: Everything gets taken from me. When do I get to have something that’s just for me?

Max: What? I don’t know what you’re- (quick beat) Do you want to talk?

Ronnie: (ignoring her)

Chop chop kiddies, time to zip into your baggies!

Ronnie reveals four long vertical bags with armholes and zippers.

Sonya: Geesh, so many bags up here. Water bags, food bags, sleep bags.

Ronnie: Zip it up and zip it in.

Clarice: K.

Clarice and Sonya make their way to their sleep bags and start getting in.

Sonya: Do Fred and Lorena sleep together? Like in the same room, I mean. I’m not asking if they make love.

Ronnie: …no. They sleep separately. Lorena sleeps in the Russian module of the station. And Fred is the big, fancy commander, so she gets her own “quarters.”

And they don’t make love. They’re both married. To men.

Max: (to Ronnie)

Though I’m getting the vibe that there’s not much love happening at home at all for Fred. You? Arg. Sorry. Gossip. I’m not a gossip.

Sonya: I am! Spill!

Max: No.

Max zips Clarice.

Ronnie zips Sonya.

Sonya: Wow, we’re being tucked in! (to Ronnie) Hey, when I brushed my teeth a few minutes ago, I swallowed my toothpaste. Was that correct protocol?

Ronnie: It was. No spitting in space.

Sonya: I got something right! I thought it was right, because Clarice spit everywhere earlier – twice – and it was definitely frowned upon.

Clarice: Are you… tattling on me right now?

Sonya: No, I’m just glad I finally did something right! I get so tired of being frowned upon. It would be so nice to be smiled upon for once.

She stares at Ronnie, waiting for a smile. Ronnie is stone faced.

Sonya: No? Not gonna do it? Can’t do it?

Ronnie: Nope.

Sonya: What if I tickle you?

Sonya reaches for Ronnie’s belly.

Ronnie: TICKLE ME AND DIE.

Beat.

Sorry, that was harsh. I don’t want you to die. Just - don’t touch me. No one on this ship should be touching me.

Sonya: …ok.

Beat.

Ronnie: Max, you ready to call it a night?

Max: …yup.

Ronnie: Great.

Max: (quietly)

You sure you don’t to talk?

Ronnie: Nope! Night.

Ronnie and Max zip themselves into their bags. Lights go out.

They all “lay” in their bags, eyes open, the soft blue light from the Earth below cradling them.

After a few moments of silence…

Sonya: How does Jupiter hold up its trousers?

Ronnie and Max: With an asteroid belt.

Sonya: (whining) Awwww.

Ronnie: I promise you, we’ve heard them all.

Sonya: Nah, I’ll get you with one. (quick beat) Why didn’t the sun go to college?

Ronnie and Max: Because it already had a million degrees.

Sonya: Shoot. Um. What did the alien say to the garden?

Beat.

Ronnie: Hm. (quick beat) What.

Sonya: Take me to your weeder.

Max: Heh.

Silence.

Ronnie smiles.

Sonya: Oh! She smiled didn’t she. Did anyone see if she smiled? That sounded like a smile!

Clarice: What does a smile sound like?

Sonya: You heard it! You know you heard it! (singing and gloating) I got Ronnie to smile! I got Ronnie to smile!

Ronnie: Alright now, enough.

Sonya: No way, I’m on a roll!

Ronnie: We’re done.

Sonya: One more one more one more!

Ronnie: No.

Sonya: How do aliens get their baby to sleep?

Silence.

Ronnie, how do aliens get their baby to sleep? Ronnie

I’m done.

Sonya: They ROCKET.

Ronnie: Done!

Beat.

Sonya: Well that social success was certainly short-lived.

Max: Night friends.

Sonya: Oh shit, are we friends? Cause that would be so –

Max: Sonya?

Sonya: Yeah?

Max: Night.

Sonya: Night.











Scene Five


The same night.

In the Russian module.

Fred sits, furiously scribbling in a tiny card. She writes, stuffs, seals and stamps the card, then moves on to the next. She’s FAST.

Lorena is smiling and singing into her computer screen.

Lorena: (singing)

(Note: this is Twinkle Twinkle Little Star in Russian)

Свети-сверкай, звезда моя, Скажи мне, как зовут тебя. Высоко так над землёй,

На небе бриллиант живой. Свети-сверкай, звезда моя, Скажи мне, как зовут тебя.

(whispering)

I love you baby. Sweet dreams.

She logs off. Fred continues to write cards and stuff envelopes.

Lorena: How’s your head?

Fred: Fine, thanks.

Lorena: You had us all worried before. What was that?

Fred: Migraine?

Lorena: Since when do you get migraines?

Fred keeps writing and stuffing.

Fred: …

Lorena: Fred?

Fred: You ever get jealous of people who’ll live in the future? Like what they’ll experience that you never will?

Lorena: No. I feel bad for them actually because they won’t experience me.

Fred: Whoa. Really?

Lorena: I feel the same way about other people’s marriages.

Fred: …

Lorena: When I see someone is getting married I think “good for you guys” but I can’t help but feel bad for them both because they’re not marrying me.

Beat.

Fred: You’re the most confident woman I’ve ever met and I want to be you when I grow up.

Lorena: Eh, I’m just a woman who doesn’t hate herself, and sadly that’s a rare sight to see. (quick beat) You putting Evie to bed? Or should I log off.

Fred: Log off.

Lorena: …

Fred: While I’m here, Dan thinks it’s best I don’t.

Lorena: What do you think is best?

Fred: Whatever Dan thinks is best.

Lorena: (quick beat) You guys ok?

Fred: No. (getting a paper cut) Ow!

Lorena: Take a break, take a break. What are you doing anyway?

Fred: Thank you notes.

Lorena: You’re writing thank you notes. In SPACE? For what?

Fred: Evie’s 8th birthday party was the week before we left.

Lorena: How was it?

Fred: Fine? I think? I don’t really remember the details. But the thank you notes aren’t going to write themselves. And it’s not worth the guilt that will be lobbed at me by my mother-in-law when they don’t arrive in a “timely fashion.”

Lorena: You do realize snail mail doesn’t work up here.

Fred: YOU THINK I DON’T KNOW THAT!? (quick beat) Gosh, why do I keep doing that? I’m sorry.

Fred sucks on her finger. Lorena goes to the first aid kit.

Lorena: Come. Let me clean that.

Fred: It’s a paper cut.

Lorena: Come.

Lorena works on Fred’s finger. It’s silent a moment.

Fred: He’s right.

Lorena: Who.

Fred: Dan. I don’t… love well.

Lorena: Dan said you “don’t love well”?

Fred: I take things for granted. My life. My kid. My-

Lorena: Well you have to, don’t you?

Fred: …

Lorena: If you walked around on a daily basis truly understanding how good you have it, you’d be a basket case. I know I would. If I really took in my daughter and was completely conscious of how utterly precious and irreplaceable she is? You’d have to sedate me to handle it. Seriously. Shoot me up with all the sedatives you could find, because I couldn’t handle knowing how truly blessed I am to be in her presence – even when that presence demands the world of me. The knowledge that she could be taken away from me at any moment for any number of reasons would be enough to ensure I would never ever complain about how busy or stressed or overstretched I am again. Ever.

Fred: Yeah.

Lorena: Maybe there’s a way to just… revel in the stretch.

Fred: Yeah. (quick beat) A Dora the Explorer Band aid?

Lorena kisses Fred’s finger.

Lorena: All better. Call your daughter.











Scene Six


Back in the main sleep area.

That same gentle space music from before plays. Snores and sleep sounds swell.

Max, Clarice and Sonya all sleep soundly, their arms floating in front of them. Ronnie’s eyes are wide open, her arms plastered down to her sides.

She listens to them. After a few moments, Ronnie floats out of her sleep bag and moves toward the others. One by one she tests their arms, gently pressing them down and watching them float back up. They’re deeply asleep.

She floats over to a dock on the wall, puts on a headset, plugs it in and presses some buttons.

Ronnie: (whispering) Houston?

Beat.

Houston?

Beat.

Houston do you read me?

Lights come up on G.C., looking groggy and startled. The music cuts out and Ronnie moves “normally.”

G.C.: Ronnie, hey, yes! Reading you. Always reading you.

Ronnie: Were you asleep?

G.C.: Course not, no! I’m on the overnight.

Ronnie: You sure? Because it sounds like you were asleep.

G.C.: I wasn’t asleep, gosh!

Ronnie: …ok.

Beat.

G.C.: (whispering)

What can I do for you, beau

Ronnie: What can you do for me?

G.C.: (trying to be sexy)

Yeah. Why can I dooooo for youuuuuuu.

Ronnie: You can fuck off.

G.C.: Whoa! What?

Ronnie: You can never talk to me again.

G.C.: Veronika, what is-

Ronnie: You can forget you ever met me.

G.C.: What is going on?

Beat.

Ronnie: You got me pregnant.











Scene Seven


A few years prior.

The cafeteria at The Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center in Houston.

Ronnie sits by herself, eating a shepherd’s pie. She wears a NASA polo shirt.

After a few moments, a young man with retro glasses and extremely hard- looking hair sits down beside her and starts eating.

G.C: Should I grow a moustache?

Beat.

Ronnie looks around.

Ronnie: Are you… talking to me?

G.C.: I am.

Ronnie: That’s how you begin a conversation with someone you’ve never met?

G.C.: I think it’s always best to pick up in the middle.

Ronnie: …of what?

G.C.: Everything. (quick beat) So… should I?

Ronnie: Grow a moustache? No. No one should ever grow a moustache.

G.C.: Really? But I’ve always felt like my upper lip is missing something.

Ronnie: Like what?

Beat.

G.C.: Gosh that’s a wonderful question. You ask wonderful questions.

Ronnie: …

G.C.: Shepherd’s pie. Excellent choice. I admire a food that’s not afraid to be mush.

Ronnie: …

G.C.: (suddenly saucy)

Soooooooo. You’re the new ass can. Welcome!

Ronnie: Excuse me?

G.C.: You’re an AS-tronaut CAN-didate. You’re an “ass can.”

Ronnie: I don’t need you to mansplain NASA acronyms to me. And you were being saucy. You know it.

G.C.: Fair enough. (shouting toward the kitchen) No sauce for the lady!

Ronnie: …

G.C.: I’m in training too. Honestly I’m just trying wrap my head around these acronyms and use them in daily conversation as much as humanly possible.

Ronnie: That’s not annoying at all.

G.C.: Good good. So where are you from?

Beat.

Ronnie: Illinois.

G.C.: No, like where are you from from.

Ronnie: …Illinois.

G.C.: But I mean like originally.

Ronnie: The classic “Where are you from originally?” question! Boy, I don’t get that question every day of my life!

G.C.: Oh no?

Ronnie: No, I DO!!!

G.C.: Ah, sarcasm. I don’t always pick up on that.

Ronnie: Why don’t you ask the question in the way you really meant: “Hmm. Couldn’t help but notice that you’re a bit brown, Ronnie. Why are you a bit brown??!?”

G.C.: Your name is Ronnie?

Ronnie: Short for Veronika, yeah. And my mother was from Nepal. Is that what you meant?

G.C.: Oooh! Asia! Cool!

Ronnie: Yeah, cool.

G.C.: “Was?” (quick beat) You said your mother “was”?

Ronnie: Yeah.

G.C.: Want to talk about it?

Ronnie: No.

G.C.: So how did you get so fluent en espanol?

Ronnie: My dad is Cuban. How did you know I’m -

G.C.: No way, he’s from Coo-bah?!

Ronnie: Yeah.

G.C.: Me encanta Coo-bah!!

Ronnie: You’ve been there?

G.C.: Never, no. (quick beat ) I’ve heard you speaking Spanish on the phone past few days at lunch. You seemed pissed, girl. Who you talking to?

Ronnie: (flustered)

My Dad. My brothers. Don’t call me a girl.

G.C.: Lo siento.

He checks to see if she’s impressed. She’s not. He tries again.

Mi espanol es malo, pero yo trato. (clears his throat) Otra vez… (quick beat) Lo siento mucho… mujer.

Ronnie: English will be fine, thank you.

He starts gesticulating a LOT.

G.C.: No! No! Es muy important que todos en los estados unidos practican otros idiomas. Ingles es abburido, no?

Ronnie: “English is boring?” I think something is wrong with you. And did you just do ASL while butchering the Spanish language?

G.C.: Did I? I need to sit on my hands more. I gesticulate a lot when I worry I’m not being understood. Not a great trait for a CAP COM. That’s my ultimate goal. CAP COM is short for “Capsule Communicator.”

Ronnie: I know what CAP COM means.

G.C.: Right. Course. How many brothers you got?

Ronnie: …seven.

G.C.: SEVEN?!?

Ronnie: Youngest of eight kids, yeah.

G.C.: Wow, seven boys and one baby girl. That must have been –

Ronnie: Stifling? Smothering? Suffocating?

G.C.: Oh.

Ronnie: I’m not new. (quick beat) You called me the “new” As-Can. I’m not new. I’ve trained for years. I was supposed to be on the last - My family… needed me, so I took a break for a while. I’m back now training harder than ever and I’m going to be on the next mission. You hear me? I’m going to be on the next mission. No one is going to stop me. And it’s going to be amazing.

G.C.: Holla!! (quick beat) Apologies, I’m trying to say “holla” less. (quick beat) You um. You haven’t asked my name.

Ronnie: I know.

G.C.: You can call me G.C. Everybody else does.

Ronnie: They do?

G.C.: No. But I wish you would.

Beat.

Mind if I smoke?

He “lights up” a candy/bubble gum cigarette.

Ronnie: (confused)

I don’t think they allow-

G.C.: (“smoking”)

Picked up the habit recently. Real excited about it. You know that back in the Gemini and Apollo days everyone in Mission Control smoked, yeah? Right there in the room.

Ronnie: That’s um - that’s a candy cigarette, yeah?

G.C.: (“ignoring” her, on a roll)

It was beautiful. Black-rimmed bespectacled eyes locked. Breaths synced. Crunchy hair gel shellacked, neckties knotted. Tobacco and wonder in… (breathing in) Smoke and steadfastness out. (breathing out…)‘Course no one knew they were killing themselves with the nicotine. (he peels the paper off the “cigarette”) They just felt so damn connected and alive and on purpose, ya know? God, what a time.

He pops the gum in his mouth and chews.

She laughs.

G.C.: Oh, I’m sorry! Want some?

He pulls the wad out of this mouth and offers it to her.

Ronnie: (laughing)

No! Thank you.

G.C.: A-ight.

He continues to chew.

Ronnie: So what does G.C. stand for?

G.C.: (proudly)

Ground Control.

Ronnie: Yikes.

He’s looking at her in a goofy way.

Why are you looking at me like that?

G.C.: Like what?

Ronnie: Like that.

Beat.

G.C.: Who’s your favorite astronaut of all time? Neil? Buzz? Sally?

Ronnie: Scott Kelly.

G.C.: Scott Kelly? Really? You know who he looks like? Like exactly?

Ronnie: His twin brother Mark Kelly?

G.C.: Nah, no way. (quick beat) Phil Collins!!!

Ronnie: You think?

G.C.: (air drumming)

Doh-dunh, dun-dun, dun-dun, dun-dun, DUNH! DUHN! DUNH!

Ronnie: (startled)

Holy shit! What are you doing?

G.C.: Don’t you love how Phil Collins busts into that drum solo in In the Air Tonight? It’s like... shocking but inevitable, right? But what can you do? The guy’s been waiting for this moment for all his life. Oh lord. Oh lord.

Ronnie: He doesn’t say “Oh lord.”

G.C.: Sure he does.

Ronnie: No he doesn’t. Not everything is about “The Lord.” He’s been waiting for this moment for all his life. Oh long. Oh long.

G.C.: Oh long??? That makes no sense.

Ronnie: Sure it does!

G.C.: What does it mean?

Ronnie: It means like... I’ve been waiting soooooooo long. To do the things I want to do. And life is sooooooo long.

G.C.: If you’re lucky.

Ronnie : (on a roll)

And how many times am I supposed to allow the men in my life to dictate what I do with it?

G.C.: Do with what?

Ronnie: Life! My life! It’s mine!

G.C.: Hell yeah it is, girl!

Ronnie: Don’t call me-

G.C.: Lo siento otra vez. (launching into the Phil Collins drum solo again) Doh-dunh, dun-dun, dun-dun, dun-dun, DUNH! DUHN! DUNH!

Ronnie: (laughing)

Alright, alright. That’s enough.

G.C.: I’m flirting with you.

Ronnie: I noticed.

Beat.

So. Your hair. It doesn’t move huh?

G.C.: Not one bit. Can’t have dipping into your eyes and making you miss things. In my job I must always remain aware that suddenly, unexpectedly, I may find myself in a role where my performance has ultimate consequences.

Ronnie: Oh. Well, that sounds like…

G.C. and Ronnie: … a job worth doing.

Ronnie: Yeah. (quick beat) I’m not letting any man familial or otherwise get in my way ever again.

Beat.

G.C: Me llamo Gene. My real llamo.

Ronnie: Your name is Gene?

G.C.: Gene Charles actually. But how cool that my initials are the same as Ground Control? Feels like it’s meant to be or something.

Beat.

Ronnie: Gene Charles.

G.C.: Te gusta?

Ronnie: Si. Me gusta.











Scene Eight


The next morning.

There are two spacesuits front and center, waiting to be worn.

Fred and Lorena stand in what appear to be a kind of long underwear. Max is by their sides, waiting.

Sonya is off to the side fiddling with things she shouldn’t be fiddling with.

Fred: Where is she? Still in the bathroom

Max: Clarice is checking. (noticing Sonya) Sonya? No.

Beat.

Lorena: (quietly to Fred)

Did you get to speak to Evie last night?

Fred: I did, yeah.

Lorena: Good, that’s good.

Sonya: Who's Evie?

Max: Fred's daughter

Sonya: Hold the phone. You have kids?

Fred: A kid, yes.

Sonya: Well how in the hell does that work?

Fred: How do you mean?

Sonya: Well, don’t you constantly feel like you’re failing her by focusing so intensely on your work?

Fred: Actually. I do, yes.

Sonya: Not to mention abandoning her. I mean for Christ’s sake, you left the planet!!

Lorena: Please don’t say Christ in that context. Also, mom shame Freddy one more time and I’ll smack a bitch. (quick beat) Forgive me. I shouldn’t have said “smack a bitch.”

Sonya: I’m impressed! To master a phrase like “smack a bitch”? English is your second language isn’t it?

Lorena: We don’t do “second” languages in my country. I simultaneously learned Russian, English, Spanish, French and Polish. They’re all my “first” languages.

Sonya: Wow.

Lorena: Listen to me Sonya. I am a mother too, and I... you can’t imagine how we… (quick beat) We have enough of the guilt homebrew, so we don’t need an additional fancy pour-over from you.

Sonya: Your metaphors blow my mind. Seriously. And I’m- (quick beat) I’m sorry. I think you’re both wildly impressive. You too Max. Ronnie too.

Clarice enters.

Clarice: I think she’s almost done.

Fred: Thanks Clarice.

Sonya: (looking out a window)

Man that moon is bananas from up here. So flipping gorgeous. If I have a daughter someday I’m going to name her Luna.

Max: Yeah I was going to do that too, until every dog I met in the past year had that name.

Sonya: Really? Luna? Dogs?

Max: Yup. I’d say one in four dogs today are named Luna today. But hey, go for it. It’s a gorgeous name.

Sonya: (pointing out window)

What’s that one there?

Lorena: That’s Mars.

Sonya: Oh hey, that thing on Mars…. is it shaped like a dog?

Fred: (under her breath)

What the hell is she talking about now?

Lorena: The “thing” on Mars?

Sonya: Yeah. Is that why they call it the Mars Rover? Because it’s shaped like a dog?

Lorena and Fred look at Max.

Max: Yeah, I’ll take this one. (to Sonya) There are actually several “rovers” on Mars. And no, none of them are shaped like dogs. They are probes that we sent there to-

Sonya: Gosh, the word probe makes me feel funny. (quick beat) Huh? Just me?

Max: The word “rove” means to uh… to move aimlessly. Like, without a definite purpose.

Sonya: So they’re like me before I got here! I was so aimless and had zero purpose before!

Clarice: But now?

Max: Well, they have a purpose, but they sort of… wander their way into it.

Sonya: Maybe I’m the next Mars Rover!

Max: What do you mean by-?

Sonya: Whoa! Why do your butts looks so puffy? What are you wearing under there?

Beat.

Lorena: In the event we need to excrete...

Sonya: You’re wearing diapers??!!

Lorena: It’s not a diaper. It’s a high absorbency garment.

Sonya: You’re planning to poop in space?!

Max: Well not intentionally, but if we have to, yeah. We’re going to be out there 6 to 8 hours.

Sonya: Oh you can hold it. Seriously please, just hold it. I won’t be able to look at you the same after I know you’ve crapped your pants. (to Lorena and Fred) Hey did you ladies poop when you gave birth? I hear lots of women poop when they give birth.

Ronnie enters.

Ronnie: That true?

She looks flushed. Everyone stares at her.

Fred: We’ve been waiting for you.

Ronnie: Here. I’m here. Sorry.

Max: You ok?

Ronnie: Yup. Fine.

Lorena: You were in the bathroom a long time.

Ronnie: Thanks for noticing my absence and the duration of my restroom activity everyone! Gosh I feel so loved and appreciated!

Fred: (quietly)

Have you been crying?

Ronnie: Hell no. I’m psyched! It’s spacewalk day, right? And everybody knows I spent my whole childhood wanting to be the airlock operator! Isn’t that why people dream of becoming astronauts? It’s not the walking on the moon or the flying a rocket or being commander of a spaceship. No way. It’s so they can open and close the fucking door for the other people who get to do those things. I’m a glorified door holder and a dresser today and I can’t wait.

Beat.

What are we waiting for? Let’s get these spacewalkers in their suits! Let’s do this!

Max: Great. Let’s uh – (quick beat) Let’s do this.

Max and Ronnie start the process of getting Fred and Lorena suited up.

Lorena makes the sign of the cross.

Ronnie: (to Lorena)

Why do you do that?

Lorena: What?

Ronnie: He’s not up here.

Lorena: What?

Ronnie: Nevermind.

Lorena makes the sign of the cross.

Ronnie: That that that. You make the sign of the cross.

Lorena: I do?

Ronnie: A lot, yeah.

Lorena: Just ingrained in me I guess. Ever since I was little, every time I saw the need for a blessing I made the sign of the cross. Heard an ambulance? Sign of the cross. Nervous about taking a test? Sign of the cross.

Ronnie: Uncomfortable seeing two women attracted to each other – sign of the cross?

Clarice: What? Who is attracted to- what?

Ronnie: Seeing a woman think for herself – sign of the cross? Seeing a woman in charge of her own body – sign of the cross?

Lorena: Can I be a Christian and have that be ok with you?

Ronnie: Depends. Can everyone else be themselves and have that be ok with you?

Fred: Where is all this coming from?

Ronnie: Shouldn’t you “know” Fred? Isn’t that what you said before? “I know.” So shouldn’t you “know” where “all this is coming from?” Shouldn’t you “know” what just happened to me?

Fred: Are you ok? I don’t-

Max: My god, what is going on with you two?

Lorena: Ronnie, I blessed myself because I’m about to go out into the vastness of space for the first time in my life. You’re the one judging people. Not me.

Ronnie: Shouldn’t God be up here?

Lorena: What?

Ronnie: I mean if He exists shouldn’t he be up here? Everyone looks up when they talk about Him. We’re “up” about as far as you can go and… nothing.

Lorena: That’s a pretty childlike impression of God.

Ronnie: I have a childlike Impression of-? Tell me, Lorena. How did the Universe begin?

Max: Can we not do this?

Lorena: The Big Bang.

Ronnie: Fantastic. At least we’re on the same page about some-

Lorena: …And Genesis.

Ronnie, Fred, Max, Clarice and Sonya: Whaaaaaat?

Lorena: You heard me.

Ronnie: When did the universe begin?

Lorena: 13.8 billion years ago.

Ronnie: Ok…

Lorena: …And 10,000 years ago when God created the Earth and Heavens.

Ronnie: You’re a scientist, how can you-

Lorena: It’s possible to hold two conflicting beliefs at once, Veronika. It’s called maturity.

Ronnie: Maturity.

Lorena: Yes. And if that was something you were capable of, maybe you’d be the one spacewalking, instead of me.

Ronnie is silent.

Forgive me, that was-

Ronnie: Ready to rock, ladies?

Fred: Ron-

Ronnie: Let’s get you out there!

Fred: I’m worried about you-

Ronnie: Seriously. Please. Get the hell out there.

Ronnie opens the airlock.











Scene Nine


Fred and Lorena are mid-spacewalk, each working on a separate solar panel of the Space Station. They are connected to the Station with cords.

The beautiful blue green Earth glows below them.

Suddenly, we hear those same musical chords from “Starman” that we heard before crescendo-ing.

Fred: (panicking)

Houston? Do you read me?

G.C.: This is Houston. We read you Commander Campbell.

Fred: We could use confirmation on what that sound is.

G.C.: What sound?

Lorena: What sound?

The “Starman” chords get louder and closer.

Fred: That sound?

More “Starman” chords.

No? Nothing?

G.C.: We’re all clear, Commander.

Fred: All clear?

G.C.: No interference whatsoever.

Lorena floats closer to Fred.

Lorena: Is it your head?

Fred: Not this time, no. I’m… fine.

The “Starman” chords reach their peak and suddenly… David Bowie is orbiting around her.

Fred: (startled) Jesus!

Lorena: What?

David Bowie: (whisper-yelling to Fred)

Haven’t seen him up here actually.

G.C.: Commander, is there a problem?

David Bowie shakes his head “no.” Fred shakes her head “no.”

G.C.: Commander?

Lorena: Fred?

Fred: No. Everything is… great.

David Bowie gives her thumbs up.

Fred: Cosmonaut Krasnova is about to navigate toward Solar Wing 1, Array 2 as planned. I am prepping to begin repair work on Solar Wing 4, Array 1 as planned.

Lorena: Fred?

Fred: Everything is going according to plan.

G.C.: Roger that, Commander.

Lorena: Ok. Just… (quick beat) Ok.

Lorena navigates toward Solar Wing 1, out of sight. David Bowie continues to orbit Fred.

David Bowie: Hello Fred.

Fred: (whisper-yelling)

Hello David Bowie. What are you- I mean, I didn’t expect you to be- I mean, how are you- (quick beat) Am I dead?

David Bowie: Course not.

Fred: (whisper-yelling)

Oh good. It’s so good to see you! I was so sad when you died. Everyone was. It felt like-

David Bowie: They can’t hear you. I made it so.

Fred: You “made it so.”

David Bowie: David Bowie sayeth it were so and it were so. Or. Anyway. Speak freely, it’s just you and me. Just don’t use the word “died.” That’s not actually a thing. (singing) “Put on your red shoes and dance the blues!”

David Bowie gets closer and inspects her.

David Bowie: ‘Cha doin’?

Fred: I’m… repairing a solar panel. (quick beat) What are you doin’?

David Bowie: Making the rounds. Ha. Orbital joke.

David Bowie’s orbital velocity has gotten much faster. And closer.

Fred: Uhhhhhhhhhhh….?

Fred seems to be getting dizzy.

Could you um-

David Bowie: Stop orbiting?

Fred: Yeah.

David Bowie: Sure I can. I can do pretty much anything I set my mind to.

He stops orbiting.

Fred: Really?

David Bowie: ‘Course. Always could. So can you.

Beat.

Fred: You look… different.

David Bowie: Is it my razor-sharp cheekbones? My sexily crooked teeth?

Fred: No. It’s… something else. (quick beat) You think crooked teeth are sexy?

David Bowie: ‘Course. Don’t you?

David Bowie flashes a crooked smile.

Fred: My mother-in-law thinks I should get invisalign.

David Bowie: Fuck invisalign.

Fred: Really? Fuck invisalign?

David Bowie: Fuck invisalign. Nice umbilly you got there.

Fred: Huh?

David Bowie: Umbilly. The cord, mate. Your lifeline?

David Bowie gives a little tug on the cord connecting Fred to the station.

Fred: Oh. Yeah.

David Bowie: In your case, a literal lifeline.

Fred: …

David Bowie: Bit of a rebel, you.

Fred: Hm?

David Bowie: (singing) REBEL! REBEL!

Fred: (startled) Whoa!

David Bowie: (singing) Your face is a mess. REBEL! REBEL!

Fred: (startled again)

God! Can you not do that while I’m-?

David Bowie: (singing)

Are you going to confess?

Fred: Confess what? I don’t know what you’re-?

David Bowie: When a sick woman sneaks up to space, David Bowie knows.

Beat.

Fred: I didn’t “sneak,” I-

David Bowie: Got a doctor friend to fudge your physical forms? Ronnie girl did the same?

Fred: …

David Bowie: David Bowie knows.

(singing) REBEL REBEL how could they know? Hot tramp! I love you so!

Fred: I-

David Bowie: Oh, I am not calling you a tramp in a lady-shaming sort of way, Winnie.

Fred: My mom called me Winnie.

David Bowie: Are you good at what you do?

Fred: I…

David Bowie: Give yourself some credit.

Fred: I’m incredible at what I do.

David Bowie: And you’re not done. You know you’re not done, don’t you?

Fred: …

David Bowie: You didn’t have to force yourself into this mission. You’re allowed to slow down. Life is incredibly short, but you have more time than you think.

David Bowie takes in the Earth below.

Oooooo-weeee! Look at that beauty. Life sure is alive, isn’t it?

Fred: (sarcastic) Well, yeah.

David Bowie: Did you just “duh” me? Don’t “duh” David Bowie. “Life is alive” isn’t an obvious statement to most people. They forget. You forget.

Fred: …

David Bowie: (singing, a la “Five Years”)

So many people! All the nobody people! All the somebody people!

Beat.

In a separate area of the stage we see Max and Clarice in a warm spotlight (inside the Space Station). Clarice is playing a slow sweet version of the “Starman” chorus on her 6-hole ocarina. Max is quietly and happily listening. Her melody and their “scene” continues throughout David Bowie and Fred’s whole next exchange.

David Bowie: How many people are on the planet right now do you suppose?

Fred:7.5 billion.

David Bowie: Minus six.

Fred: Hm?

David Bowie:7.5 billion minus six.

Fred:Oh. Right.

David Bowie:What do you suppose they’re all doing right now?

Fred:All sorts of things I suppose –

David Bowie:I like to think that they’re all making love.

Fred:ALL of them?? Right now?

David Bowie: Maybe not all of them, but you have to imagine out of 7.5-billion-minus-6 people, at least… millions of them are making love right this second, yeah?

Or maybe just… falling in love? (quick beat) Gosh, can you stand it? How beautiful is that? Look down there. Really go there with me, Winnie.

Note: during the rest of Bowie's speech, we see a silent scene in spotlight in a separate area of the stage. Max and Clarice are moving toward their first kiss. Their physical actions sync up with the words Bowie is speaking.

David Bowie: All those body parts... seeking each other. All the lungs... breathing each other. The mouths... kissing each other. The hearts... beating for each other. The hands... interlocking each other.

Fred: Alright, I think I get the-

David Bowie: And all those parts - the lungs the mouths the hearts the hands, and the people and personalities that go with them - are here for just a blip. Such a blip when you consider the enormity of what’s come before and what will come after.

Lights out on Max and Clarice.

Fred: I don’t know if I’m aroused or depressed right now. It’s an interesting combination.

David Bowie: Are you always sarcastic when you’re scared?

Fred: Yes.

Silence.

David Bowie: Get home. Get the help you need. You’re going to beat this thing.

Fred: I am?

David Bowie: David Bowie knows. (quick beat) Oh and... rocket.

Fred: What?











Scene Ten


Back inside the Space Station. Chaos.

G.C., Ronnie, Max and Clarice: ROCKET!!!

Max: Houston, why is there a rocket pummeling toward us?

Clarice: What’s going on?

Ronnie: Gene, what aren’t you telling us? Gene!

Max: Who the hell is Gene?

G.C.: Commander Campbell and Cosmonaut Krasnova have been instructed to abort their mission immediately and are preparing to re-enter the station. Astronaut Cruz, man the airlock and await further instructions.

Ronnie: No Gene, I will not “MAN” the airlock, but I will WORK the airlock!

Max: Not the time, Ron. Wait. Ground Control’s name is Gene?!

G.C.: An unidentified spacecraft is rocketing toward you and is in direct line with the station.

Ronnie: Unidentified, my ass! What aren’t you telling us?

G.C.: (flustered)

Man the airlock! I mean, WORK the airlock!

Ronnie: Is this why you pulled me off the spacewalk? You didn’t want me out there when this plan of yours came together?

G.C.: MAN THE AIRLOCK!!!

Ronnie: (a complete explosion)

I’M MANNING IT! I’M MANNING IT! I’M MANNING IT!!!!!!!!!

A silent beat as Ronnie mans the airlock.

Max: What the hell is-?

G.C.: (trying to get back to business as usual)

Commander Campbell and Cosmonaut Krasnova have entered the ship. Awaiting confirmation of outer hatch closure. (listens a beat) Outer hatch is closed and sealed. Astronaut Cruz on my command, you can open the airlock.

Ronnie: (scoffing)

On his command.

G.C.: ON MY COMMAND.

Ronnie: OH OF COURSE SIR.

G.C.: (listening a moment)

We’re clear to open the airlock.

Ronnie opens the airlock. Lorena and Fred come barreling through, pulling off their helmets, mid conversation. Ronnie closes the lock behind them.

Lorena: Who were you talking to out there? Your mouth was moving but nothing was coming out!

Fred: I don’t know what you’re-

Clarice: (looking out window)

Whoa! That thing has slowed wayyyyy down. It looks like it’s going to-

G.C.: SpaceX Starship Hopper preparing to dock.

Fred, Lorena, Max and Ronnie: WHAT?

G.C.: SpaceX Starship Hopper has docked.

Sonya: Oh, fantastic.

Sonya has entered wearing sleek astronaut gear, a unique space helmet in hand.

Lorena: What in the world is she-

Sonya: That would be my ride.











Scene Eleven


One month prior.

Sonya: Knock knock?

Elon Musk: Enter the space.

Sonya: (excited) Mr. Musk?!

Elon Musk: Enter the space.

Sonya: (hyper as hell)

Hi! Oh! It’s really you! Hi!!! I first saw you when I watched your Ted Talk on Youtube. Then I had to watch all of your Ted talks! And all the interviews I could find with you anywhere and everywhere! That sounded stalkery, I swear I’m not stalkery. It’s just the more I listened to you, the more I felt connected to you and I just think you are so weird and wonderful and inspired and… ALIVE that I just HAD to write to you and-

Elon Musk: Enter the space.

Beat.

Sonya: Sorry, enter the what?

Elon Musk: Space.

Sonya: Which space?

Elon Musk :This one.

Sonya: But we’re not in space.

Elon Musk: No, this space.

Sonya: Sorry, I don’t-

Elon Musk: The room! Come into the room!

Sonya: Oh. Yesyesyesyesyes.

She enters.

Sonya: Hi.

Elon Musk: Hello.

Sonya: Sorry, I – You have an accent. Accents are hard for me.

Elon Musk: You’re… hard for me?

Sonya: What?

Elon Musk: I think the real question isn’t what but “when”?

Beat.

Sonya: … what?

Elon Musk: When are we going to Mars?

Sonya: You’re asking me?

Elon Musk: I sure am, Sondra.

Sonya: Sonya.

Elon Musk: Sonya. God that name is gorgeous. So much better than Sondra.

Sonya: Thank you.

Elon Musk: Sondra, how often do you look at NASA’s website?

Sonya: Um… never?

Elon Musk: I look at the NASA website daily and let me tell you, it gets me down. (whining and throwing a quick mini-tantrum) I mean, when are we going to Mars?

Beat.

Sonya: Are you ok?

Elon Musk: Are any of us ok? Here’s the thing. I could keep doing this. We could all keep doing this.

Sonya: Doing what.

Elon Musk: This. (whining and tantrum-ing through the next line) Throwing tantrums and whining about what we want, waiting for someone else to make things happen for us. OR! We could do those things ourselves.

Sonya: …

Elon Musk: Your essay was brilliant.

Sonya: It was?

Elon Musk: No. Have a seat. Please.

There is only one chair, the loveseat he’s sitting on.

Sonya: Next to you?

Elon Musk: Of course.

Beat.

She sits.

Sonya: Your skin is so… pleathery.

Elon Musk: Your essay had passion.

Sonya: It did?

Elon Musk: I respond to passion.

Sonya: Wow. Because I was feeling kind of sad when I wrote it.

Beat.

Elon Musk: Sondra, did you know that it would take forty-two raptor engines to boost a rocket to Mars?

Sonya: Raptors? Ha. Veloci or Utah? Micro or Buitre?

Elon Musk: Dinosaur humor. Respect.

Sonya: Thanks, Mr. Musk. I respect you too-

Elon Musk: Call me Elon. Sondra, I have forty-two raptor engines affixed to my rocket and they’re ready to roar. (quick beat) Do you understand what I’m saying?

Sonya: Not at all.

Elon Musk: Let me show you something. My rockets are state of the art. Far more capable than anything NASA has created thus far. My rockets know how to speed UP!

He has begun demonstrating his rocket’s potential with his body.

And my rockets know how to slowwwwwww dowwwwwwn. This means, I can get us to Mars very QUICKLY! Then slowwwwwww down and land safely like a reverse launch. It looks a bit like this.

He does a physical reverse launch demonstration.

It’s called supersonic retropropulsion.

She doesn’t react.

Elon Musk: Let me say that again. Supersonic retropropulsion.

Sonya: Ooooooh.

Elon Musk: There we go. Bill Nye the Science Guy thinks I can’t do it! But here’s the thing. Bill Nye the Science Guy is an uninspired bozo. Here’s the thing.

Sonya: You say “here’s the thing” a lot.

Elon Musk: Bill Nye the Science Guy is a silver-haired hack who wears powder blue bow ties and hangs out with toddlers. Carl Sagan was a PBS playboy with “billions upon billions” of frivolous fans and unearned accolades, and I promise you, if I have to see Neil DeGrasse Tyson wearing one more celestial vest on Stephen Colbert I’m going to spontaneously combust.

Sonya: With the exception of Mr. Nye, I don’t know who the hell you’re talking about.

Elon Musk: Exactly.

Beat.

Do you bartend?

Sonya: Hm?

Elon Musk: We’ll need all hands on deck while we’re colonizing. And obviously Mars will need bars. Mars bars.

Sonya: Hahahahaha. (quick beat) Oh you’re serious.

Elon Musk: I’m never not serious.

Silence.

Sonya: I um. I thought I was applying for an opportunity to go to the Space Station. Not Mars. I’m not sure I’m the right person to-

Elon Musk: I thought you wanted to do something spectacular, Sonya.

Sonya: (touched)

You got my name right.

Elon Musk: I thought you wanted to BE spectacular.

Sonya: I do. I just… I’m sorry, I just don’t… (quick beat) bartend.

Elon Musk: Very well.

He gets up and moves toward the door.

Sonya: (panicking)

But! I was a server at my Nana’s retirement community last summer!

Beat.

Elon Musk: Fantastic. We’ll need servers for people’s Nana’s retirement communities on Mars.

He gets very close and strokes her face. She is putty.

Sonya: You will?

Elon Musk: WE will.

Sonya: <giggles>

Elon Musk: We’ll need everything on Mars that we needed here on Earth.

Sonya: That’s… (quick beat) I’ve never been needed before.

Beat.

Elon Musk: You’re going to be… spectacular.











Scene Twelve


Back on the Space Station.

Fred: Your ride? What in the world are you talking about?

Ronnie: (to Max)

I told you I didn’t trust her! She’s been up to something this whole time!

Sonya: (excited)

It’s called a rendezvous, did you know that? When one ship docks with another?

Fred: Of course I - Houston, Houston do you read me?

Houston’s not answering.

Houston!

Lorena: Where is Houston?

Fred: What are they doing? Are they sending you home?

Sonya: Not “they.” He.

Fred: Who?

Sonya: (proudly) Elon.

Lorena: Oh my god, did you...?

Sonya: ...have sex with Musk? It’s hard to say. I think so?

Max: You think so?

Sonya: Well it was all so innovative, I’m not sure what to call it! And no, Winifred. He’s not sending me home, he’s sending me to Mars!

Fred: That’s not – No. (quick beat) They don’t know enough yet. They don’t know how to get back.

Sonya: He’s working on it.

Fred: Working on it!?

Sonya: Here’s the thing. The world is full of “Ready AIM Fire” people. And it gets us nowhere. I’m being a “Ready FIRE Aim” person and that’s what’s going to get the world moving and rallying in the right direction. (to Ronnie) Airlock operator, I’m ready to rendezvous! That’s what that’s called, right? An airlock?

Ronnie: Yes.

Ronnie goes to open the airlock.

Fred: What are you-? Ronnie, do NOT open that airlock!

Ronnie: Why? She knows what she wants to do. Let her do it! She gets to choose her own path. Isn’t that right, Houston?

G.C.: That’s uh... that’s right…

Lorena: Oh Houston, you’re back!

Ronnie: And so do I. (quick beat) I’m going with her.

G.C.:ABSOLUTELY NOT.

Fred: Ron! Why would you-?

Ronnie: It’s ok for her, but not me? Why? Because she’s dispensable and I belong to you? I don’t belong to you!

G.C.: Commander Campbell, stop this immediately!

Ronnie: Fred, I swear to god, stay out of my way!

G.C.: Commander?!!

Fred: I’m. (quick beat) I’m not getting in her way. Ron, I’ll work the airlock for you.

G.C.: I FORBID THIS!

Ronnie: I didn’t ask for your permission.

G.C.: Veronika, you are the mother of my-

Ronnie: I am not an “of!”

Max, Lorena, Sonya, Clarice: (ad lib) Whoa. Oh my- Whaaat? etc.

G.C.: What?

Ronnie: The “mother of!” The “daughter of!” The “sister of!” The “girlfriend of!” I’m not an “of”!

G.C.: I know that! Of course I know-

Ronnie: And I’m not the mother of anything. Not anymore. (quick beat) Didn’t work out I guess.

G.C.: Oh. I’m… so sorry… Are you-? I mean is there something I can-?

Ronnie: You’ve done enough.

Fred moves toward the airlock.

Fred: Preparing airlock…

G.C.: Do NOT open the airlock.

Ronnie: I deserve to do something great.

Fred: Astronauts at the ready…

G.C.: Do NOT open the airlock.

Ronnie: I will not apologize for my ambition.

Fred: Airlock opening…

G.C.: Do NOT open the airlock.

Ronnie: Thank you for this great opportunity. (to Sonya) Go go go!

Sonya and Ronnie shoot into the airlock and Fred slams the door.











Scene Thirteen


Sonya and Ronnie zoom toward Mars, much like the women zoomed out of Earth’s atmosphere in the first scene. Much rattling and color-bursting and sound!

Sonya: <peppy, indecipherable speaking>

Ronnie: Can’t hear you.

Sonya: <peppy, indecipherable speaking>

Ronnie: Um. Rocket sounds are happening so, maybe we can table this until-

Sonya: <peppy, indecipherable speaking>

Ronnie: SONYA! FOR THE LAST TIME, I CAN’T HEAR A DAMN THING YOU’RE SAYING!!!

They land.

It’s suddenly silent.

Sonya: What?

Ronnie: …

A soft red light washes over them. They stare straight ahead.

After a moment…

Sonya: Well. Should we-

Ronnie: The other day, right before launch, my pinky nail got sliced off. That one nail always grows longer and faster than the others. It’s weird. Bodies are weird. Anyway, it sliced off and there I am, holding this piece of me that’s no longer a piece of me. Right as I’m about to launch into space. So what am I supposed to do with it now, let it go? Throw it out? I mean what’s it even made of? My cells right? (quick beat) Yeah. It grew, attached to my body, fueled by my life force, this… need in me to expand and stretch and change and be more... and then it was just… separate. Done. (quick beat) I couldn’t just throw it out. So I sat there and cradled it between my thumb and... what’s this one called?

Sonya: Forefinger? Index finger? Pointer finger? You ok?

Ronnie: So I just kept rolling this flexible little… evidence of life between my fingers – and I noticed the lines on my palms. Suddenly they looked exactly like the lines and veins on these leaves I saw during a walk that day with my dog. I had this rare moment during my walk where I wasn’t obsessing over anything, and I just started… seeing things. Dirt where tiny little flourescent shoots were straining to rise all the time. Massive trees that were pressing themselves taller every second. Wind swirling. Animals crawling. Water rushing. The Earth was alive and trying to stay that way with no absolutely help from me. But I was part of it. She was moving through me. Every single second. I was her and she was me. And I felt.wonder.

Beat.

I’m getting out.

Silence.

You coming?

Sonya: Yeah, yeah, I’m coming. I’m-

Sonya puts on her helmet. Ronnie puts on her helmet.

They open the door together and step out.

They stand very still, in a brand new very old place.

Mars sounds.

Mars smells.

Mars.

After a few moments…

Ronnie: (quietly)

Oh my god, there she is.

Sonya: Who?

Ronnie: There. See that tiny little dot?

Sonya: Yeah?

Ronnie: That’s her.

Sonya: Oh. Gosh, wow.

Silence.

Ronnie: It’s like the further I am from her, the more I can finally start to see myself.

Sonya: I… know what you mean. (Beat) Why is that?

Ronnie: I don’t – (Beat) I don’t know.

They stare at the pale blue dot in the distance. We hear Sonya’s voice. As she speaks, the blue dot gets steadily bigger and bigger.

Sonya: (in voiceover)

Dear Mister Musk –

Thank you in advance for reading this “Statement of Interest” essay. Gosh, I haven’t written an essay since I was in high school. So it’s been a few years. Not that I’m old or anything! Definitely strong and fit and up for the experience of being a “Citizen in Space!” Pick me, pick me. Haha! ☺

I’m pretty sure you’re not supposed to use words like “gosh” or “haha” or smiley faces in a persuasive essay - I confess: I googled “How to write a persuasive essay” – but I promised myself I wouldn’t edit or delete myself this time. I do that way too much I think. And despite how I sometimes feel, I don’t actually want to delete myself. I want to… free myself. Free myself, yeah.

I wake up every day in a panic. I know I have this amazing, limited time opportunity of being alive on the planet and I know I’m not doing it right. And I know that, because I’m doing it alone. I’ve never found my place. I don’t know why. I put myself places. All sorts of places. All the time. But I never seem to stick. Or maybe I stick too much and that’s why everyone else moves away?

It’s like there’s this pressure constantly pushing me further down into the ground to the point that I can’t see or feel or sense anything clearly. I can only see this little, tight version of me, spinning and spinning and spinning. Shouldn’t gravity make us feel secure though? Connected? Protected? That’s the point of it, isn’t it? And on a planet with eleventy-billion people… shouldn’t there be a solid place for me?

I feel like there’s something bigger. And softer. Like maybe if could release the pressure and get high above it all, even for a minute… maybe I could see it and understand it.

The image of the Earth has become huge and soft and beautiful.

So this here is my thesis statement I guess – I know you’re supposed to declare it in the first paragraph, but it takes me a minute sometimes:

I’ve lost my sense of wonder. And I want it back.

End of play.











About the Author

ERIN MALLON is a playwright, author, and narrator of nearly 600 audiobooks. The Natural History Series, her debut collection of romantic comedy novels (including Flirtasaurus, Lovebug and Sharkbait) follows the lives and loves of young women in STEM careers. Erin’s plays have been presented with Urban Stages, New Georges, Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival, The Collective, Cherry Picking, Great Plains Theater Conference, Samuel French #OOB Short Play Festival, Project Y Theater, Dreamcatcher Rep, Mile Square Theatre and more. Erin’s play Branched premiered with InViolet Theater at HERE Arts Center in NYC and is in print with Original Works Publishing. Her play, The Net Will Appear had its Off-Broadway Premiere at 59E59 Theaters in NYC starring the great Richard Masur. Other full- length plays include: Pale Blue Dot(s), Good Riddance, Hand Me Down, Stunning Displays of Prowess, Skin Hungry, The Other White Meat, Soft Animals and Come Find Me. Along with writer Bixby Elliot, Erin is the founder and co-curator of The Brooklyn Generator (a playwriting engine that creates “plays in less-than- 30-days”) and one half of The Theater Husband / Theater Wife Project. Many of Erin’s plays are available as multi- cast audio dramas on Audible.com, including These Walls Can Talk 1 & 2, Erin’s comedic plays about the romance audiobook industry. Erin lives in a little yellow house on the outskirts of NYC with her husband and Three J’s.

For the latest on new releases visit me at www.erinmallon.com

And be sure to follow me on social media:

Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

Goodreads | Tiktok











