The Young Marshal by Eileen Chang





1



At the house party all the girls came out on the veranda to look at the street. A man down below tossed up a sheet of paper folded into a twin-hearts knot. They picked it up, untwisted it and read:

"Young lady, wait for me this time tomorrow."

They rushed indoors in a body. They were the first generation with unbound feet. Even in satin slippers the new "big feet" made them seem like a boisterous crowd.

"This must be for you." They passed the slip of paper around.

"Says who? More likely for you."

"Why me of all people?"

"Who told you to be so pretty?"

"Me pretty! That's you yourself. I never even saw what sort of a person it was."

"And who did? I had no idea what happened when everybody started running."

The fourth Miss Chou was too young to have to protest.She just grinned from under the bangs that blacked out the top half of her face. They stayed overnight. The next day at the same hour the girls said:

"See if the man is here again."

They hid behind a window and peered out, hippy with their posteriors thrust out in the figured satin trousers and their thick pigtail hanging down the cleavage. The young ones had two pigtails. But most were eighteen, nineteen and engaged to be married. They were so excited over this it was plain that they had never been in love. Fourth Miss was a little ashamed of the way they kept watch all afternoon. The man never came.

She herself had been in love a long time. She went to the Marshal's House on all birthdays and festivals. There it was always somebody's birthday, either the Old Marshal's or one of the concubines', not the sons' as it was bad taste to celebrate a youngster's birthday with three days' feasting and command performance by all the best-known actors. The Chous were invited on the "central" day so there was no danger of their running into more rowdy elements like the army officers. The eldest son of the house was an officer himself. Sometimes he appeared in a long gown, sometimes a western suit but she liked him best in uniform. Men's gowns were considered decadent and western clothes foppish, or like a compradore. A military uniform was both modern and patriotic. Soldiers were different,they were strong-armed beggars. The officers were feared in a different way. They had all the real power. When they happened to be young and mannerly they seemed to be the country's only hope. The Young Marshal as everybody called him was very handsome. When he laughed he had a sarcastic look, even with children. They followed him around. He carried on a conversation on a dead telephone for their benefit.She could not stand up for laughing. Once she went to watch the singers make up for their roles. An actor was using his study as a retiring room but the actor was on.

"Why don't you cut your hair?" he asked. "Why these pigtails? We're a republic now."

He chased her around the room with a pair of scissors. She was laughing until he held out a bushy black bunch to her.

"Here, you want to keep this?"

She burst out crying. At home they would scold and what would Father say? But it was only a false beard.

She had seen many private performances at relatives', in her own house too. Unlike the musty theaters these were in a courtyard under a roof of fresh matting casting a summery shade. The new stage lit by blue-white gas lights and the hubbub of a holiday crowd totally transformed home life. The feeling that something wonderful was going on that she did not quite catch drove her to go in front, see better, somehow protrude herself, get hit on the head by the shattering gongs and cymbals. She would put her hands on the stage boards and stare upward. The heroine stood right above her piping her song,plucking her own sleeve showing off the flowing white cuff. Her headdress of black-ringed brilliants flashed blue. Two long slabs of rouge from eyelid to jaw marked off a narrow white nose.The warrior's painted face loomed large as a devil's mask. His singing also came out in a bottled boom as if from behind a clay mask. A kick and leap flung up dust that Fourth Miss could smell, stinking slightly of horse dung. There was still something she was missing. She circled the three sides of the stage hand over hand. Those sitting in the front row reached out to protect their glasses of jasmine tea placed between the footlights. At the theaters she had seen people ushered onstage out of the wings in the middle of a performance and chairs set out for them in a row. They were important people with their family and concubines. It was said to be vulgar showing off but she envied them up there in the midst of things although it was doubtful they could see more from behind the actors.

That was when she was little. In the days of Wu Pan-hu as they say. Before that was Tuan Ching-lai's time. "Now it's Fung Yih-shiang." "In the south it's Fang Shen-chuen." Even the amahs knew the war lords by name. They may not know who the president was but they always knew who was actually in charge, and called him by his name, the one curious instance of democracy in a nominal republic. The Old Marshal was the only exception in this house because of his special connection with the master. Fourth Miss was hazy about their reigns and change-overs. A combination of snobbery and caution kept the wars out of polite conversation and reduced them to the level of city crime talks, a matter of staying in and watching the doors."There's fighting outside. Nobody goes out," She would hear along with the boom of distant guns. The resident tutor taught as usual but the Englishwoman would not come for the girls'English lessons.

"Phoebe Chou, 1925," the teacher had dictated the line on the flyleaves of all her books. The name Phoebe was just for the teacher's convenience. Her other given name was also not known outside the schoolroom. Her father was supposed to use it but he seldom had occasion to address her. She was just called Fourth Miss.

The Old Marshal coming inside the Pass last year had rented the former palace of a Manchu prince. The parties on its huge grounds were as big as a fair, acrobats and minstrels under the mat awning, Peking opera in the big parlor, another performance for the ladies in the second parlor, mahjong in every other courtyard, fireworks after midnight. She drifted around with big red bows on her pigtails, her long gown a stiff trapezoid. Wide sleeves jutted out flat and triangular above the wrists that dangled foolishly by her sides. People said the Young Marshal was sweet on the Chu sisters and often took them out dancing, of which he was very fond. She wished he was married to the Third Miss Chu, the most beautiful girl she had ever seen. His wife was homely and silent, four years older than him and seeming much older still. Fortunately she seldom saw them together. The rules of the day did not call for it. They had two children. She was the daughter of a war lord in Szechuan who had saved the Old Marshal's life once. In gratitude he married his son to his benefactor's daughter. To Fourth Miss it was one more thing to admire in the Young Marshal, to have paid his father's debt with his own life, so to speak.

She never heard the Chu sisters mentioned at home without a snicker.

"Running wild and their father lets them. Once the bad name is out even the youngest will suffer by it. ‘Ha, the famous Chu sisters' people will say."

The Fourth Miss Chou did not have to be warned off them. She felt like a country cousin. Even the Fifth Chu ignored her except this one time when she asked, "Have you seen the Young Marshal?"

"No."

"Go look for him."

"What for?"

"Tell him somebody is looking for him.""Who?"

"Not me anyway."

"Can't you go yourself?"

"I can't. It's all right for you."

"You're not much older."

"I look older."

"How should I know where to look? And just to tell him something without head or tail."

"Little devil. People seldom ask you anything and you put on airs." The Fifth Chu hit her laughing.

She hit back and ran. "You want to go, go yourself."

Rushing out of the crowd she went straight to look for the Young Marshal. Once out among the men she had to watch out for her father and half brothers, keep close to the wall, run for cover behind potted flowers, wander around the corridor walks pretending she did not quite know where she was. Fruit blossoms appeared in pale masses where the lights touched them in the courtyards. Servants bearing dishes went in and out the curtained doorways. A hubbub everywhere and music instruments being tuned. She was a tree growing toward a lighted window all her life, at last tall enough to peer in.





2



"Oh , is he in Peking? The Old Marshal seen him?"

"I haven't heard."

"He works through Old Fu."

"Is there talk that Old Fu has hitched a thread on the southwest?"

"Is that so. Hardly worth his while, what?"

"That's it. Canton will never amount to anything."

"Canton has gone Red."

"The Russians are getting out of hand."

"Hey, tonight we speak only of the wind and moon."

"All right, you there! You took in a pet without feasting us,now say how you should be punished."

"Ha ha! How did you get to hear? I didn't dare disturb you all for such a trifling matter."

"Punish! Punish!"

"Stand dinner! Make your honorable pet fill our cups."

Sharkfins were served.

"Chin chin! Chin chin!" And "Ai, ai——ai, ai——" little cries of warning with a hand covering the wine cup to stop it from being refilled.

There was an alternative ten-course western dinner for foreigners but W. F. Ronald brought a loaf of bread just in case. He was well-known enough to indulge in this one small eccentricity. He was no bigger than the Chinese but well-built,with an ordinary pleasant face, hair combed straight back, a high nose pointing straight out with two wry lines at the base. He reached for his glass of water.

"There is foreign wine." The Young Marshal signalled a servant. "Whiskey? Champagne?"

"No, thanks. I don't drink."

"Mr. Ron never drinks, not a drop, heh heh heh!" the Minister of Education explained laughing.

"America prohibits wine," said the Under Secretary of Navy who had studied in the naval academy in England.

"Is pork also taboo?" another said.

"Actually a little port won't hurt. Very mild," said the another.

"You're not a Prohibitionist are you?" The English author Gravesend-Kemp pretended alarm.

"No."

"Then you must belong to one of your fascinating sects."

"Not used to Chinese food," observed another.

"Or Chinese women, heh heh heh! Mr. Ron is really a good man, no hobbies of any kind," said the Minister.

"Anyone who doesn't like Chinese women doesn't like women," Gravesend-Kemp said with a little bow.

"Eight Big Alleys don't represent Chinese women," the Young Marshal said.

"Hear, hear!" said the Under Secretary.

"Unfortunately they're the only ones a foreigner can get to know," Gravesend-Kemp said.

"What is this about?" Ronald gathered that it had to do with himself.

"Your manhood is being defended," said Bancroft, born in Shantung of missionary parents. The three foreigners were placed side by side to keep each other company.

"A good thing I don't speak the language," Ronald said.

"Hear no evil, speak no evil," the Young Marshal said.

"Not at all? After all these years?" said Bancroft.

"Not a word. I don't want to. It's just confusing."

"It may contradict your own ideas about China,"Gravesend-Kemp said. The Englishman was a little high. His dark eyes were set close to the level black eyebrows. The lower part of his face was big, making him look fat. He was famous for his first book about the Boxers' Rebellion, which he had been here in time to see. Naturally he could not stand the American newspaper hack turned advisor to the Chinese like himself.

"It's just as well not to understand a lot of what you're being told," Ronald said, "when people are just being polite or trying to give a good impression."

"He's just a poor linguist masquerading as a cynic,"Bancroft said.

"It is said that people of strong character have difficulty learning another language," the Young Marshal said.

"What about you? Would you call yourself a weak character?" said Gravesend-Kemp.

"Leave me out of this."

"Certainly a strong character, our Young Marshal," said the Under Secretary, "pioneer in everything, poker instead of dominoes, movie actresses and society girls instead of singsong girls."

"Insulting our women again. That reminds me, when are we going to play poker?" he called across the table in Chinese.

The Minister shook his head and waved a hand. "In poker I dare not keep you company. The Ministry of Education is a poor organization."

"You're too modest."

"Hey, Young Marshal, a Shanghai newspaper elected the Four Princes of the Republic. You're one."

He sniffed. "Princes of the Republic. That's a good swear word."

"Who are the others?"

"There's Yuan Hun-chuang——"

All comments passed over the other two, mere war lords'sons, less flattering comparisons.

"Hun-chuang is a poet and calligrapher but no match for the Young Marshal in military matters and all round brilliance."

"He's selling calligraphy in Shanghai. A real bohemian."

"Half Korean, isn't he? His mother was one of the two imperial concubines from Korea."

"Were you here during the restoration?" Bancroft asked Ronald.

"Which one?"

"The first president turning emperor."

"As a matter of fact I started the whole business. It was at just such a dinner as this. I was saying it's still debatable whether China is best suited to a monarchy or republic. And that set all the Chinese talking at once. Never saw them so excited. Within weeks the so called ‘Security Planning Society' sprang up all over the country boosting restoration."

He had fought the movement he touched off. He helped a dissident general under house arrest, smuggling him out of Peking in a laundry basket. The general stirred up other provinces against the new emperor. Ronald arranged for him to abdicate and continue as president. But the rebels insisted on retirement. Ronald had to quiet his fears for the safety of his family and ancestral graves before he would resign. Like a lonely champion Ronald had played both sides of the game.

"I say, are you from Texas?" Gravesend-Kemp said.

He smiled. "No, Oklahoma."

The Chinese listening to the translation nodded so steadily and heartily their heads made circles in the air. Contemporary history was unwritten and unsorted, a dangerous subject never to be committed to writing in their time. Truth has a thousand faces.

"Some has it that a singsong girl smuggled him out of Peking."

The Under Secretary added diplomatically to Ronald,"People knew somebody must have. It makes a better story if it was the girl he was going with."

"So I became a singsong girl."

"Tch, tch, how could you?" Gravesend-Kemp said.

"What's Hsu Chow-ting doing abroad?" Ronald asked the Minister.

"Borrowing money."

"For the usual purpose? Build up the army."

"Heh heh heh heh!" the Minister sounded slightly embarrassed. Hsu was the Premier's man. The Premier had no army and ought not to need any with two protectors, the Old Marshal and the Christian General.

Ronald returned to his cold steak. He had this trick of suddenly shooting out a question after one of his long stories.When a listener was lulled into a sense of security the natural desire to compete for attention was apt to surface and the answer was more likely to be truthful.

The Chinese seemed to be still talking about the restoration. There was that story about mine host and the restoration, of course Ronald would not tell it here. The Old Marshal was already the ranking officer in Manchuria at the time. Peking saw to it that he got a governor he got along with.This was one of the fourteen governors who had sent in secret petitions for restoration. As a result he was created duke, first class. The Old Marshal was viscount, second class. The Old Marshal was not pleased. He got up a large group of officers to go with him to the governor's house saying, "Your Excellency being kingmaker will want to attend the coronation. We're here to beg for instructions as to the date of starting, so we can prepare the send-off."

The governor could see that he had to go. "I leave for the capital tomorrow evening."

The Old Marshal played it out to the end, gathered all the staff for the farewell feast. Manchuria never had another governor. The new emperor had his hands full.

"He wanted to be emperor as far back as the Korean expedition," the Under Secretary translated. "He was taking a nap in his tent. An orderly came in and saw a huge frog in the bed, was so scared he broke a vase. He did not scold, just told the man not to talk. Dangerous if the Manchus knew one of their generals was going to be emperor one day."

"Is frog a royal emblem?" Gravesend-Kemp asked.

"No, any big animal. Turning into one when you are asleep is said to be a sign. What really happened must be the orderly was afraid to be punished for breaking a vase and so invented the excuse."

"A big frog," the murmur ran around the room. No one dared praise the orderly for a quick imagination. The first president had rather looked like one.

Just the sort of colorful superstition that would interest foreigners, Ronald thought. He had no patience for these things that supposedly make the Chinese different, because he knew they are not.

"I had this from Liu Tze-chien who was in his secretariat.He actually considered marrying a Korean princess to become king of Korea."

"He's from Honan, that's why. The seat of the earliest dynasties. The mind is influenced by the royal traditions. He'd never have dared if he was born south of the Yangtze," said a man from south of the Yangtze.

"He's a nineteenth century Chinese," Ronald said. "Very capable, but he aged early. Quite worn out in his fifties, hair and moustache all white. He got the idea that I'm for the Nationalists. Greeted me every time with ‘Lao ming-dang, old Nationalist, what's new in Canton?' "

"Mr. Ron has a bellyful of anecdotes," the Minister said and repeated it in English.

"What else is there?" Ronald said. "The last twenty years was just a jumble of personalities, the kind that figure in anecdotes."

"How old are you anyway?" the Young Marshal said.

"Oh, I saw you the other day," Ronald said.

"Where?"

"Playing golf on the Great Wall."

He laughed. "Very good golf links."

Quite a memorable figure in his wide white flannel trousers on the green grass of the inner slope. He was said to be fond of all things modern, had been close to the Y. M. C. A. people in Mukden while learning English. Talked better than he listened, got away the minute he sensed advices and lectures.The father was a sloe-eyed frail little man with a forced smile under the moustache. Ronald knew his type. In Oklahoma they had local big shots who had started life as cowboys like the Old Marshal. No, he was a horse doctor, to be exact. Manchuria seemed to have been very much like the Old West. Horses ploughed the land and were ridden across great distances. To avenge his father who was killed by a gambler he got into the enemy's house at night and shot a maid servant by mistake.He ran away to join the army. Years later he came back, was promptly arrested but escaped from prison. He hired himself out as protector to a village. It was difficult to tell between protectors and bandits, hence the legend that he had been a hu fei, bearded bandit, also called red beard, possibly originating from marauding white tribes on the Amur but more likely a reference to the standard make-up for robbers in Peking Opera.With a dozen men under him he settled down and sent for his wife. His son the present Young Marshal was born in a village.On being challenged by a large gang he proposed a duel with the leader who had no sooner said yes when the Old Marshal whipped out a pistol and shot him dead. So by a quick draw he won his first important battle and absorbed a hundred new men into his following.

The cowboy had grown old, smoked opium and kept many concubines. He had his own way of doing things. Ronald could always get a job here. The Minister of Education was an old acquaintance, a carry-over from former governments, and had made him offers. The fact was practically any foreigner who accosted a Chinese official would be given the title of advisor and 200 Yuan a month just to keep him quiet. It had been so since Manchu times. Of course advisors like GravesendKemp were not after the 200 Yuan. The Old Marshal must have paid him a tidy sum for his latest book, "The Lonely AntiCommunist: His Struggles in Far Asia". Unlike his other works this one was published by a British bookstore in Shanghai. The Anti-Communist was the Old Marshal, the only bulwark against Communism in China. The western powers were urged to give him a free hand to take back from the Russians the ChineseEastern Railway in Manchuria. Japanese interest in Manchuria was scarcely mentioned. Did the Japanese commission the book? It was not like the Old Marshal anyway to place such trust in the powers of writing. Ronald made a mental note to find out.

He noticed the Young Marshal get up and leave the room,and suddenly felt empty. Had he talked to impress the Young Marshal? Partly it was because the dinner tonight so reminded him of the other on the eve of the restoration, the same big round table and buzz of talk, Tiffany lamps and an overall white glare, the room a rosewood cage, curlicue partitions with moon gates cut out of them, hung with apricot silk. That was already a dozen years ago when he was the youngest old China-hand.Sometimes he wondered why he stayed. What is he doing here, reporting on the murky political scene, telling stories at dinnertables, writing long letters on Chinese politics to his sisters in Coon Creek, Oklahoma. There is always a living for him here. The Chinese don't forget people easily. Has-beens are respectable here. There is something sinister about present power and wealth, especially now. The past even as recent as a decade ago has mellowed enough for nostalgia, as with the first president. Aside from being the granddaddy of war lords,the maker of things as is, he inherited the mantle of authority from the Manchus as their last chief official. Nevermind that he helped bring them down. That's the trend of the times and it is generally agreed that the Manchus are impossible. After he died his favorite pupils took turns succeeding him as president or premier. They constitute the only legitimate descent. Premier Tuan, the last of the star cadets of the military school he had founded, lost out to the new war lords risen from the ranks or worse. However all these upstarts have tried to maintain continuity by supporting one of the first president's men.The Old Marshal has got Tuan out of retirement to head his government, a sorry come-down for Tuan, everybody thinks.

"Hey, lao ming-dang!" what the first president had called him, being shouted across the table. The rest he did not understand.

"He said Old Nationalist, how is your fellow spy?"

"Who?"

"The Aunt of the Country."

"And who is that?"

"In Canton aren't they calling Sun Yatsun the Father of the Country? That makes his wife the Mother of the Country, and her sister will be the Aunt of the Country."

"Which sister?"

"The little one who is here as beauty bait. It looks like our Young Marshal has a mind to be the country's uncle by marriage."

"Not so loud," somebody cautioned.

"Gone. Off to the dance at Peking Hotel."

"So a north-south alliance is in the offing," another said.

"She will bring in more dowry than two battleships."

The Under Secretary of Navy had got the post by defecting from Canton with two ships.

"What does the Old Marshal think?"

"Our Old Marshal is great on loyalty. With his feeling for his in-laws, divorce is out of the question."

"Better tell that to the lady."

The Under Secretary was told to translate to Ronald.

"I've scarcely seen her since she was a little girl."

"As old friend of the family it's your duty to tell them she may lose her virtue here and lose face for the late Dr. Sun."

The Young Marshal was in the courtyard talking to Fourth Miss.

"Who's looking for me?"

"Don't know."

"Don't run. Who made you come anyway?"

"Nobody made me. I come and go as I please.""So where're you going now in such a hurry?"

"To the show."

"Which show? I'll go with you."

"People are waiting for you."

"Who?"

"Ask yourself."

"Little devil, so you won't tell, then I won't go."

"Then don't go, who cares?"

"You don't want me to."

"That's the thanks I get. Next time see who will take a message for you."

"What message?"

She struck him and they wrestled under the banana palm.

"Come-back-come-back, where're you off to?"

"To tell Big Sister-in-law."

Everybody knew he was not afraid of his wife. That wouldn't scare him. But she did not see him together with the Third Miss Chu later that evening and thought he did not come. Theirs was the rendezvous, in the courtyard just outside the roomful of liverish faces around the scarlet tablecloth,some standing up bellowing unsmiling, urging wine or declining it or challenging another to finger game, in the kind of male ceremoniousness that had always struck her as grotesque and completely incomprehensible, a circle of red cows being led through some temple ritual older than Confucius. The foreigners smiled fixedly, faded sepia heads resting on tall white collars like photographs. How like him to be with the foreigners instead of people like her father.

She could not get over how she had answered back. At home she was very quiet. "Don't start anything" was Aunt Hung's constant admonition. Her mother was dead, she was brought up by another concubine. All the other children had backing while Aunt Hung had long been out of favor. He had also lost his mother early and had been reared by the Fifth Old Concubine.

"Those young masters of theirs, no law, no heaven, the minute their father's back is turned," Aunt Hung had said.

"Not like us here," the amah agreed.

"They don't go in for these things," Aunt Hung half winked.

They chatted about the old days, putting each other right.Fourth Miss discovered that her father had given the Old Marshal his start. As viceroy of Manchuria he had granted amnesty to the bandit leader and made him a captain. Came revolution, the viceroy's inclination was to save Manchuria for the Manchus. But there were revolutionist plants in the army.At a military conference an officer suggested that they follow the example of other provinces and declare themselves "sympathetic to the revolution" but retain the viceroy as military governor.The Old Marshal stood up and spoke out of turn:

"I Chan Tzu-wong don't sympathize with the revolution,"and slapped his gun on the table.

After the conference which got nowhere the viceroy summoned Chan saying:

"The revolutionaries must be all set to act or they wouldn't have revealed themselves. I am ready to die for the emperor."

"Your Excellency need not worry. I Chan Tzu-wong happen to have a thing for loyalty. I'll be responsible for Your Excellency's safety."

He moved his own men in to guard Chou and ordered troops about in his name. The revolutionaries fled Manchuria.But Chou's plan to turn it over to Prince Su was foiled by the Japanese, possibly by the Old Marshal too. Chou finally gave up and took a job in Peking. As the governments rose and fell he retired. Now known as "king of the northeast" the Old Marshal pushed inside the Pass. The monster he had made had followed him to Peking although it was a grateful monster.

Fourth Miss was so surprised when she heard a half brother say, "We give Prince Su thirty thousand a year." Theirs was like a family of well-off pensioners, with enough to keep up the old rules but discountenanced by any new expenses. There was the great fuss when Aunt Hung put in a telephone in her courtyard so she could arrange to go out and play mahjong without using the family phone. She was paying for it herself,she had money of her own stowed away. The objection was that such extravagance might give rise to gossip. As if Aunt Hung could have a lover. Fourth Miss could not see her as a singsong girl. All that was known about her was that her last name was Hung before she entered the singsong house. Fourth Miss did not remember ever seeing her father in their courtyard. Aunt Hung had grown old quickly to save face, put on gold-rimmed spectacles and a black gown bulging in the middle from the fold of padded trousers.

"There's talk that Second Miss is engaged," an amah whispered and Aunt Hung whispered back:

"Which family?"

"The Tuans."

"Which branch?"

"Don't know. A widower they say. With lung trouble."

"These things are all in the stars. A healthy husband can also sicken."

"That's true."

"Any children?"

Fourth Miss heard them with consternation but never thought of it in terms of herself. Her half sister had always been a grown-up. The lottery of blind marriage gave everybody hope no matter what the odds were, especially when it was far in the future.

She learned this in the schoolroom:

"Slenderly swaying, just over thirteen,

A nutmeg on the bough in early March.

On three breezy miles of Yangchow road,

At all the windows with pearl blinds up

There's none as fair."

"Written for a courtesan," the tutor said.

It was inconceivable how the most beautiful courtesan of old Yangchow had been the same age as herself. Thirteen was actually twelve by modern reckoning which did not count you as a year old at birth. She felt the gulf of a thousand years looking across at the other thirteen-year-old.





3



She pestered a cousin to do her hair for her just for fun,curl the fringe with hot tongs and top it with a smoky rise. The pigtails were left untouched, tied for two inches with tightly wound pink silk thread. The mass of coarsened waves somehow set off the face and the lacquered plaits. She did not know whether she would be going to the Marshal's House the next day, one of the concubines' birthday. They may not celebrate this year. Both father and son were said to be in Mukden. She sat up all night sleeping face down in her arms on a table. The hair's slightly burnt smell excited her.

He was home. But as often happened at those circuses at the Chans' there came a point when the great day streamed by passing over her, smoothly bumpy, a big sun-warmed body of water, and there was nothing to do worthy of a day like this.She had seen all the operas. The best female impersonators did not come on till late. Nobody listened to the comedian waving his black fan with a patter of tributes to the birthday lady. She milled around with several other girls. A mound of potted peonies from Loyang, said to be watered with milk, was wired with colored electric bulbs leaving enough space inside for a table set for dinner. Today's magician was supposed to be good, a Japanese woman who had just played Shanghai. They talked about the programme in the Young Marshal's study. He had glanced at her curiously, then scarcely looked at her again.It was the hair-do. She steamed under the hot cloud of crimpy hair. She had not seen him for months. He no longer wanted to tease her now that she was older. The other girls, no Chus among them, did not have much to say either. He gave them knick-knacks some people brought him from Hangchow.

"Let's go. Time the magician is on," a girl said.

She was going with them when he said, "Here's a fan for you."

She opened the sandalwood fan and looked at it.

"A big young lady now. Won't speak to people any more."

"What?"

"So stylish too. Getting engaged."

"What nonsense is this?" She colored automatically. This was one thing he had never teased her about. Old ladies liked to do it.

"You won't tell. Won't invite me to the wedding either?"

"Stop that nonsense." It no longer sounded like a joke. The disaster suddenly lifted her up and put her among the adults.

"So? I'll be waiting for the feast."

"Pei!" she pretended to spit and turned to go. "What's the matter with you today?"

"All right. Sorry for being a busybody."

"Where did this talk come from?"

"Haven't you heard really?" For the first time she saw a gleam of anxiety in his eyes.

"There's no such thing."

"The Tangs are making a match for you."

"No such thing. I'll say no anyway."

He laughed. "What's the use of your saying no?"

"Kill me and I'll still say no." Here it came, the opportunity to die for him and to let him know.

"How about telling them the Fifth Old Concubine has adopted you, so she will see to your marriage."

"I'm never going to marry."

"Why?"

"Don't want to."

"What do you want to do if you're going to be an old young lady all your life? Go to college? Go abroad? Go as my secretary, all right? What are you looking at?" He crowded close to see what she found so engrossing in the fan.

"I'm counting."

"Counting what?"

"The beauties."

He pointed to each painted figure in the garden and pavilions as he counted them. "Ten."

"Eleven."

"Ought to be twelve. It's usually twelve."

"I missed this one in the window. That's twelve."

"I got her. And here's one behind the tree."

"One, two, three, four…" She got ten.

Their nearness so confused them it came out different every time. Finally with an embarrassed little laugh he pounced on her, "Still another one here."

"Let me finish."

"What about this one here? So small we didn't see."

He did not let go of her wrist and held it up for examination. "Why so thin? You weren't like this before."

Immediately ashamed of not having turned out as pretty as she had promised to be, she mumbled, "It's only lately."

"Aren't you well?"

"Yes. I just can't eat."

"Why?"

She did not answer.

"Why?"

The more she kept her head down, the heavier it weighed,impossible to lift.

"Not because of me?"

He pushed up her bangs to see the hidden half of her face.She held still, nude and windblown. His arms were so loose around her it felt like a coat of powder. She struggled foggily.He must know too that it was no use. The difference in their age had him married long ago. They might as well have lived in different dynasties. She was free to love him as if she found him in a book. Otherwise how would she have been so shameless?Suddenly mortified, she did not know how to explain if he did not know. And how would he guess? Run and it would just seem like acting shy. She ran and heard the fan crunch underfoot.

Once out of the room she soon stopped running for fear of being seen. He was not following her. She was immensely relieved and happy. He loved her. Let them make their matches,it no longer matter what happened to her. He loved her, he always would. Surprisingly it was still afternoon. The clang of gongs came over faintly from the stage. She was so lonely she had to touch every pillar and post on the corridor walk. After taking another turn, definitely out of his sight, she skipped just to feel the familiar patter of pigtails on her shoulders, somehow as dim and far away as the sound of the gongs.





4



"Fifth Old Concubine of the Marshal's House has sent a car for Fourth Miss," the message came to her courtyard from her father's.

A man servant showed her to the Young Marshal's study.She stopped at the door smiling.

"Come in, come in. A good thing you came. Nothing to do today. Show you the tennis court. Just been put in. Do you play?"

"No."

"Ping pong surely."

"No."

The man would be back with tea. They sat waiting in silence, he with bent head and a slight smile as if he was holding a cup of water he was afraid to spill.

The man finally came and was gone.

"I have news for you."

"I guess it was your trick."

"Sit over here. You don't want people to hear."

"Who wants to hear such nonsense?"

"Tch, people are worried for you. Did you hear anything?"She shook her head. "Good."

"You made it all up."

"Don't be without conscience. Do you know why nothing more was said? I had people drop a hint to the other side so they wouldn't go any further."

"What did you tell them?"

"That you're spoken for, what else?"

She beat him with fists. "Honest, what did you say?"

"Just that Fifth Old Concubine has a match in mind for you, only you're too young, it has to wait a few years."

"What if Father hears?"

"What of it? Nothing wrong with that."

"Maybe they won't let me come here any more."

"If you don't come I'll come to your house with a gun."

She wished she was locked up so he would come for her."You're just fooling."

"No."

He pulled her to his lap where she sat with bowed head feeling his eyes glow beside her face like a jewel on her ear.He breathed her in. What if they could only have moments like this, she thought, it already seemed like a whole day. Time slowed down to eternity.

"Your eyebrows go like this," she traced them with a finger,then along the eyelids that fluttered down at her touch, and carefully down the center of the nose, checking each item to see what she had bought. He looked all new. Ownership made a difference, the way a picture card differed from a picture in a book.

"You haven't been to Peitaiho? Tsingtao is still better.We'll go. You learn to swim. If only I can have one night's sleep holding you like this."

Her smile stiffened slightly.

"Just hold you. Once when I was little I went out hunting and caught a deer. I wanted to take it home and keep it. We rolled over and over on the ground, I just will not let go. In the end I was so tired I just fell asleep. When I woke up it was gone."

She hugged him tight to squash the emptiness in his arms.

"It was quite big. Much bigger than I at the time."

"Did you have a gun?"

"No, I wasn't allowed to. Just bow and arrow and a knife."

"That was in Manchuria."

"Yes, it's good hunting country."

"Is it very cold?" Her mother had been a singsong girl there when her father was viceroy. Having been raised as her father's daughter only she never thought of herself as half Manchurian.Actually she looked rather like him with the same chiseled oval face and straight eyes. He drew away to look at her smiling.

"I'd eat you, but then there'd be no more."

"Somebody's coming." She heard a sound in the courtyard.

"Nobody comes here."

"All of us were here the other day."

"Nobody's let in when I'm here alone."

Alone with someone? Like the Third Miss Chu? It no longer mattered. They were the only two people in a cluttered world where she had to be careful not to step on all the chess figures and bric-a-brac scattered on the ground. She felt herself lumbering in sudden tallness.

"Young Marshal, topside calls," a voice shouted from down the corridor.

His father had visitors for him. He came back in nearly an hour to sit her on his knees again and stroke her ankle. At dusk he was called away once more. After a while the servant came to announce that the car would take her home.

The next time Fifth Old Concubine sent for her the car took her to a house she had never seen before in a long alley off a quiet street. The chauffeur held the door open. She hesitated and drew the head scarf over her face the way ladies kept out of the dust on ricksha rides. She went in with the filmy turquoise face past uniformed guards playing mahjong in a lighted room off the front court. He was waiting for her in the next courtyard.

"Whose house is this?"

"Mine. I have to have some place to go to. Never any peace in the house."

"I never knew you have your own house."

"I don't get to come here often. That's why it's in such a state. Come take a look around."

"Nobody else here?"

"No one."

It was like playing house in a deserted building. They both had ideas of what to do with all the half empty rooms. The bedroom was fully furnished however, complete with bottles and jars on the dressing table glinting in the half dark with curtains drawn.

"Who lives here?"

He closed the door quickly. "It's a guest room. Sometimes I have friends over to play cards all night. This other room has a brick bed, I was going to have it taken out and put in floor boards so we can dance."

They made the round.

"Does the Third Miss Chu come here often?"

"Yes, she was here once or twice."

She did not talk much afterwards. Back in the parlor he said, "You're different. We'll always be together."

"Can't."

"Why?"

"Your wife."

"That was only on account of the Old Marshal. I've always been fair to her. After all it wasn't her idea. I'll come to some arrangement with her, but it's a matter between me and the Old Marshal." He always said the Old Marshal as if he was just one of his father's officers. Filial obedience was an old virtue that embarrassed him a little, he liked to put it under military discipline.

"No use saying anything just now, you're too young. It will only get you locked up."

"You said you'd come for me with a gun."

"Still best not to train a gun on a father-in-law."

She twisted away laughing. Somehow the new prospects did not surprise her. Their hopelessness had been no pretext with her, yet was already forgotten. Anything was possible after the miraculous coincidence of his loving her too.

"I wanted to give up this place but it's difficult to find another so near the house but out of the way. And there has to be room for the guards."

"What if they go and fetch me at the Marshal's House?"

"They'll telephone me. Plenty of time to get over there."

"Itchy." She pinned down the hands groping up her funnel sleeves.

"What's all this you've got on? It's too late today, I'll drive you to West Hill some time."

"You can drive?"

"It's easy."

"We can ride donkeys in West Hill."

"We'll rent donkeys. I'd like to live there. The foreign reporter Ronald has a villa there, did over a temple in the emperor's hunting park. He was telling about it the other day.In the first Chih-Feng war he walked around the front lines in West Hill and saw a wire trailing on the ground, so he picked it up and rolled it up as he went. Some of our men came yelling to him. He just stuck up a thumb and said, "Old Marshal very good," then shook his head: "Wu Pan-hu no good."They laughed and let him go. With the field telephone cut off the Manchurian army fell back and that turned the tide. So according to him he lost us the war."

"He wasn't afraid to tell it?"

"He invited me to come and see his electric bell wired with our piece of wiring. These foreigners think they're so brave. They walk into a rain of bullets and it stops, for fear of killing a foreigner. Where else but in China can you have such adventures without the least danger?"

"They say you like foreigners."

"They're fun to be with. More outspoken. I hate flatterers most of all." He leaned forward to knock off cigarette ashes and turned around to kiss her, a deer taking a lackadaisical sip from a pool. A lock of hair hanging down his brow, the head came down at her like a lowering sky or the quick nightfall in the mountains. She dipped dizzily into darkness.

It was still sunny afternoon and dead quiet with all the empty courtyards around them. Precisely because she was unused to such privacy her family seemed to be watching. Not her father whose remoteness and dignity made it inconceivable under the circumstances, but the others, the women of the house always waiting to put in a bad word, and Aunt Hung and her own amah who were responsible for her. They took the shape of birds carved roughly of unpainted wood perched on the rafters and over the door. She never looked up but she had some idea of them, round-eyed hook-beaked hens over a foot high, some larger, some smaller. She herself was up there looking down out of the wooden eye of double circles. His hand strained at her trouser leg and long silk under-pants and slid absently down the stocking. Sitting in his lap she had the oddest sensation of being flogged gently by some muffled piston or an atavistic thumping tail. The amahs had jokes about the tail bone at the base of the spine and had made her feel her own when she was a child. "It's the stump of the tail that has been cut off.Mankind had tails before." She doubted it happened even while it seemed to be going on underground. She did not want to ask him, it probably had to do with sex. Perhaps the only ladylike thing to do was to ignore it.

Starting from twilight the Drum Tower sounded every half hour with eight drum beats. The Bell Tower immediately tolled its answer, announcing the coming of night and the moral curfew.

"Funny I never noticed it before," she said. "It sounds like ancient times."

"The towers were built in Ming Dynasty."

"It's been like this every night since then?"

"Yes, the Manchus continued it."

"Why do we still do it? There're clocks now."

"Why indeed? We've been fifteen years a republic and nothing is changed."

He pulled a bell cord and shouted "Serve dinner" at the approach of footsteps. The dinner was set out in the next room with no one around. He smiled at her over his rice bowl. Eating at the same table by themselves they were real householders at last. Her embarrassments tied her in such knots she could not finish eating.

"What's the matter?"

"Nothing. You eat."

A new towel sprinkled with cologne was spread over a basin of hot water on the side table to keep it hot. When he had finished she put the towel in and wrung it dry for him, turning to go even before she had handed it over, ashamed of acting so wifely. Leaning away she smiled over her shoulder all in one quick movement. Entranced he caught her hand but she pulled away.

"Come out here," he called.

They looked at the moon on the corridor walk. He held her to him and the warmth of his loins swayed her back like a blown flame so that she laughed in surprise. The moonlight was blue on the scarlet pillars.

"Just think, I almost didn't come back."

She clutched him. "When? The last time you were in Mukden?"

"Yes, there was trouble. One of our officers turned on us.The Christian General was in it too."

"I seemed to have heard there was fighting outside the Pass."

"A near thing. The bulk of our troops marching on Mukden, only a few miles away. The Old Marshal's train all stoked up ready to leave."

"Leave for where?"

"Dairen."

"Dairen…That's where you were going."

"I suppose. I was cut off from Mukden at the time. There was even talk that I was mixed up in the uprising."

"How was that?" she whispered.

"Just because Koo and I belonged to the same company and got along all right."

"How can they say such a thing? Your own father. The Old Marshal didn't believe it?"

"The Old Marshal was very angry."

"But…Not now?"

"It's not mentioned any more. I was at fault of course,should have been more watchful."

That was more reason why he could not speak to his father about her or anything else just now. But all this was nothing compared to the chilling terror of their nearly missing each other, that seemed to dissolve his solidity right in front of her eyes and between her fingers. But here was the blue-limned face smiling down at her and the cool pressure of his lips. Here he was in Peking, the drum and bell continuing the night watch,louder outdoors, with a more pressing sense of the wonders and dangers of the night. For a moment it opened up the palaces and rabbit warrens of time behind the old city, all the double doors looking straight through one another as they swung open,to make a cavern or tunnel.

"You'd better go," he said. "We won't go by the same car."

"Fifth Old Concubine is so fond of you," Aunt Hung said."Why not adopt you?"

"I don't want it."

"Silly. It's good to have a rich adopted mother. She'll make a good match for you."

"Aunt Hung never says a decent thing." She slumped forward to rest her chin on the table, fiddling with little objects at hand.

"No, really. Leave it to your father and you'd be given away as present. Of course this is just between you and me."

"Talk away, nobody's listening."

"I know you won't tell."

Was there a double meaning? No. She quickly put it out of her mind.

"Your Aunt Hung didn't say anything?" he asked.

"No."

"If they know you come here where we're all by ourselves they'd certainly think you've been taken advantage of. Have you?" Laughing he tried to look into her face which she kept turned away. "Have you?"

She clung to the side of the sofa bending over it.

"If they really ask you what are you going to say?"

"The truth."

"Then it's still not too late for them to marry you off."

"Then I'll lie," she said after a moment.

"That's no use. Well, worst come to the worst I'll kidnap you."

"The Old Marshal will be very angry."

"That goes without saying. He has a special regard for your father."

"What shall we do?"

"Nevermind. I'm in bad standing with the Old Marshal anyway."

She did not like to lie down beside him on the sofa but this way they were able to gaze into each other's face longer than ever. The only annoying thing was that each had one arm too many. After various efforts to tuck it away he said, "Chop it off." The afternoon sunlight made a small rainbow on the wall mirror. She could not remember ever having known such peace and safety. Not a thought stirred in the golden desert-like calm with the mountain ridge of the sofa back looming on the horizon. It began to get dark in the room. Her smile deepened with the twilight. A look of dread pinched his eyes small. He buried his face in her loosened hair, wavy from the braiding.

"I don't know why, just now you were like a ghost."

"What kind of ghost?"

"The usual. A man lost his way and came upon a big house in the wilderness. He was invited in for dinner with the beautiful lady of the house. After spending the night together he walked out and looked back and no house, just a burial mound where the house had stood."

So he was afraid like her that it was all make-believe inside this door.

"There's that feeling of no night or day, just a dim yellowbrown sun like in the city of the dead."

"It's because we're cooped up here all day."

"I've never spent so much time with anybody in all my life,"he laughed embarrassedly. "People are asking what I'm so busy at these days, why I'm never around."

"I wonder what they are saying behind your back."

"I'm dying to tell them."

"I won't mind if they say I'm your slave girl."

Slave girl was easier to say than concubine. But even as she was saying it, feeling moved by it herself, there was a faint suspicion at the back of her mind. Perhaps she was capable of shouting any time "Pieng ni duh, fooled you!" and run out laughing. She could stop any time. She would sit in his lap, the unbuttoned flap of her jacket hypocritically kept in place, the layers of opened trousers top and untied belts piled around her middle. There was something terrifying about the long reach down those warm folds and her hiding in the cupboard waiting to be discovered. His touch palpitated like a heart pumping thunders of blood through her and a listening silence.Their faces were close, yet remote, both with eyes down, idols towering half out of the little temple they shared, contemplating the thief in the dark prying at the ruby eye in the navel.

His head rubbing furrily against her bare breast frightened and revolted her slightly. Where did she get such a grown son to suckle? She saw him first regarding the goosepimply pink nipple with an expressionless eye before taking it in his mouth.The half itchy drawing on it also grated and needled like pressing it through a wire sieve. She looked down worriedly at the small pale triangle being flattened as he turned to the other one. Finally he raised his head blindly, a red haze over the eyes,and picked up his cigarette. She straightened her clothes and went to the mirror to tidy her bangs. Shaded by the big black square, now in place, she smiled at him and covered the slight awkwardness by stretching her arms downward with fingers interlaced in the attitude of a suppressed yawn. This jerked her sleeves up like the uptilted roof corners of a pavilion, and under the trousers the white L's of feet, stockings and slippers all white. He extended a hand without lifting it and she flew back to his side.

Being ignorant of any kind of basic rule between the sexes,even lying naked under him she felt free to get up and leave any time. A soft weightless bag made a disconcerting vacuum in the middle of her load. She ran her hand up and down his narrow back but when he grew restive she was close-faced and rigid.This had to wait for the "cave room and flowered candles", the wedding night going back to the cave-dweller's time. Even he would blame her if she did not keep something back for that night. And although she would not let herself think it, what if this house was to turn into a burial mound behind her one day the minute she stepped out the door? What happened here was only between the two of them, melting away without a trace when they each went back to their lives outside.

He remembered an appointment he could not get out of.The car would come back for her. She realized afterwards that he was a little angry, which was enough to make her feel lost.

"This is the only way. Then nobody can do anything about us ever," he said.

She nodded slightly with her head turned away on the sofa cushion. They never went near the bedroom.

"No, it's impossible," she said half laughing as if asked to swallow a bottle or rather a grooved ringed earthen jar.

"It hurts."

"It won't in a minute." He stopped several times.

"No, it hurts."

"We have to get this settled today."

The senseless ramming went on, as impossible as ever, now getting to be a racking pull splitting her into two. A sudden rush of air was forced up her chest. Between tossings of her head from side to side she saw him look thoughtfully into her face.

"I feel like throwing up."

He kept kissing her and hurrying back to his business,traditionally called the joy of fish in water and the dance of mandarin ducks with necks crossed. More like a dog butting at a tree stump for some reason of its own. She burst out laughing,finally laughing so hard there were tears in her eyes. He grinned ruefully, deflated. After a final crouch on all fours to examine the ground closely he stretched out to kiss her lightly and hold her to his side.

"It counts as done," he said face-savingly.

Peace returned and with it the luxury of pretending they could fall asleep and stay the night. To her surprise he was asleep. The Chinese room with western furniture had changed curiously in the dark yellow light of the standing lamp. The familiar tables and bureaus were ranged lower all round, farther away, backed against the wall to keep out of the fight. He lay curled up on his side, suddenly common-looking and unknown,the first man newly created that could be anybody, not worth the labors that produced him.

But it always seemed years before they met again and left her quite changed. They grinned at each other with the secret between them. It made them sit apart and talk of other things.When he pulled her to her feet she said no, it would hurt.

"We have to fix this."

He pulled her by the hand toward the sofa. There seemed a long way to go and the length of their arms left her a few steps behind. She found herself walking in a procession of muffled women. His wife and the others? But they had no identity for her. She joined the line as if they were the human race.





5



"The sound of the wind is not good these few days," Aunt Hung and the amahs were whispering.

She thought the fighting was over in Manchuria? Something about an assassination just outside Peking. Nobody went out.The front gate was barred with big water jars pushed against it.If the Young Marshal's car had come for her she was not even told.

She had already gone to bed when her amah came in and whispered straight-faced, "The Young Marshal is here."

He was at the door. She dressed hurriedly.

"Surprised?"

"So late!" she said, as if otherwise there was nothing untoward about receiving men guests in the bedroom. The amah was gone, appropriately leaving the door slightly open.

"How did you get in?"

"I forced my way in. I told you I would if you don't come."

"You didn't."

But he was in uniform complete with pistol in holster.

"Does the front of the house know?"

"No, I came by the backdoor nearest you. A servant let me in. He knows who I am."

She thrilled at the magic of power that enabled him to pass through walls. It felt odd seeing him in this room that was outgrown, almost dingy, filled with the debris of childhood now behind her. But she was glad to break the spell that confined them to their phantom house. Here they were out in the everyday world. She had thought of him so much in this room.Couldn't he tell that? She used to come back at night when she had scarcely seen him at one of those birthday parties but with impressions so strong and so at odds with her old room she had to fix her eyes on the window as if listening to music. The reflection of weak lamplight browned the empty black panes framed in black-and-gilt wood. Without going to the window she was standing right in front of it, open to a damp wind blowing like a scarf on her face as the feeling came over her with the air of reality against her cheeks, then coming unstuck again, the multitude of filmy patterns drawing away, the exultant singing receding. Compared to such clamorous streams of sensations his actual presence here was ghostlike.

"Is there going to be fighting?"

"Lots of rumors around just now."

There was no telling whether the amah would help keep up the pretense by bringing tea. Perhaps she was starting the stove this minute.

"Everybody is staying home with locked doors?"

"Afraid of looting."

"Who are they afraid of? The Christian General has run away."

"There still are Fung's troops here. At the west city gate."

It was never quite clear to her how the Christian General kept on as a lesser partner to the Old Marshal, and still more confusing after their falling out.

"Who was this man that was assassinated?"

"Hsu Chow-ting," he mumbled looking away. Another of those names she was not supposed to remember. "It was Fung's doing."

"On a train."

"Yes. I could have been on that train." He half laughed.

"What?" That other world of his, the sea of unmemorable names and boring political dinners, suddenly reared up and flooded the room.

"I was at the dinner that saw Hsu off and he asked me to come along for the ride. I was thinking of running over to Tientsin anyway. They were going to mine the tracks, but with so many troop trains, the schedule was all upset. In the end they just dragged him off the train. That's how everybody knows who did it."

"How lucky you didn't go."

"That's why I was thinking, I don't care, I wanted to see you so I came."

She smiled back weakly. Was the amah coming back or no?

"Is the Old Marshal angry?"

"Of course. To have this happen so near the capital."

"Is there going to be war?"

"There's a lot of confusion just now. Premier Tuan has resigned. Hsu was his man. Just back from a trip abroad."

He got up and closed the door.

"No, you better go."

"It's just as bad to go now as later."

She watched him hang his belt on the bed rails, the dreamlike juxtaposition of the pistol holster against the bulbous iron railings ringed with faded gold.

"Aunt Hung is sure to hear."

"She probably knows already."

"No she doesn't."

"Everybody has gone to bed."

"She can see my light is still on."

"Turn it off."

"No, don't. I want to see you or I wouldn't know who it is."

He looked displeased at the very idea that there could be anybody else. But she had to see his face hanging over her like a lotus risen out of the sea, otherwise she wouldn't know what was happening to her, just pain in the darkness. The mosquito net was half tucked up so he could grab the pistol in case of emergency. If this got known what was to happen to Aunt Hung? And the amah? She was fouling their lots, making it impossible for them to go on with their meagre lives in this house. It was sinful, yet curiously safe like burrowing into the attic. For once they had the whole night, as lifelong as to the insects cheeping in the courtyard. She liked the first contact when she seemed to be getting him at last, a soft smooth flesh bait coolly slipping out of the toothless bites, a tantalization that melted the knees. But it became painful immediately.

"Say something nice to me so I can finish right away. Say you're Chan Shu-tan's man."

Somehow she just could not say it.

"Say you like me."

"I like you. I like you."

Off he went on his frantic ride and rode on after an arrow shot in the back made him grunt and pant, finally falling forward still hanging on, the hot flood pouring out of him.

"There're mosquitoes."

"Were you bitten? Where?" He licked a fingertip and rubbed the spot.

She smiled. He must have learned that as a small boy in the country. They were still safely in the middle of the night. He was a toy she could take to bed with her, a jade piece to fondle beside the pillow. With the light out she could just make out his profile facing up.

"You're not as happy as I am." She thought he looked sad.

"It's because I'm older. Like a child that cried and cried for an apple, still sniveling when he has got it."

"You've always had everything you wanted."

"No, I didn't."

She was sorry and wished she could go into all the years without her, the deserted courtyards yellowed by an ancient sun.She would rush in shouting "I'm here! I'm here!"

He leaned over the side to light a cigarette from the incense coil on the floor, supposed to keep mosquitoes away.

"All the talk was about Hsu Chow-ting at tonight's dinner."

"Why was he killed anyway?"

"He was getting up a coalition against the Christian General.The southeast gave him a royal welcome on his way back. But he was made much of everywhere. He was asked to review troops in England. When he found there were only two seats on the platform for the king and queen he looked displeased.So George V got up and let him sit with Queen Mary while he stood with the officers."

"Was he an army man?"

"Foreigners called him General Hsu. They call everybody general. He's a politician really. Little fat man. At a garden party in Buckingham Palace his senior secretary brought his wife,over fifty, with bound feet and dressed in Chinese clothes, but her husband wanted her to wear a big straw hat with flowers. A young secretary was against it. But her husband being a scholar with an imperial degree, second grade, knew everything in the world. ‘Is there a foreign woman who'd go out in daytime without a hat?' he said. It was about six hundred yards to the royal tent and her bound feet could not walk fast. The wind blew her hat off. The young officer ran to get it but it rolled left and right and up and down and took a long time to catch.George V laughed with both hands holding his belly."

She tried not to be heard laughing from outside the room.He pulled her hand over and closed it around the sleeping bird,strangely tame and small, wrinkled and a little moist.

"Hsu spoke to the young man afterwards: ‘You may not have stopped to consider, it's great disrespect to the English king.' The secretary said, ‘Then what about the American chief justice? He was slapping the king's back, jumping up and down laughing.' Hsu said no more. The next day the London Times gave an account of the chase without comment, but criticized Chief Justice Hughes although he's an old friend of the king."

"Where else did they go?"

"America. All over. In Russia Hsu had a debate with their foreign minister Chinchirin. There he was welcomed as a head of state."

"Why?"

"No Chinese is taken seriously unless he's a military man.And he was an old-timer of the Pei-yang clique."

"I'd like to see Paris and Italy."

"We'll go. In a couple of years."

The drum and bell towers sounded the half hour. They were still deep inside China, deeper and older by the minute as the warning against dangers in the dark led far back into the centuries.

"Old Tuan telegraphed him at Shanghai not to come back.Old Tuan was afraid for him. But he thought it would be an international joke if the Special Envoy dared not come back to Peking. Also because of the fighting in Manchuria, he thought to take advantage of the situation, the old fox. He saw a chance for Old Tuan. So he borrowed a car from the British consulate in Tientsin and was driven to Peking flying the British flag on the radiator cap. Somehow he didn't take precautions this time.It's fate."

"He just took a train."

"Yes, supposed to be a special train, just a car hitched to the regular train. Brass bands to welcome him at every stop and a long wait to water the engine. The station was brightly lighted and surrounded with troops, as grand as his reception in Moscow. An officer came aboard and asked for Mr. Hsu. The Envoy is not feeling well, his secretary said and asked the man to sit in the upper seat but he took the lower."

"Even on a train there's an upper and lower seat?"

"Not berths either. With us Chinese it's always ceremony first, war later. So they chatted. The officer said he was sent by Commander Chang and where was Mr. Hsu? The secretary insisted he was not well. Hsu was in another compartment sleeping off his wine. The voices woke him up. He came out rubbing his eyes. ‘Didn't I tell you the Envoy is not well?' the secretary said."

He pulled her hand back.

"The officer stood up. When Hsu finally got them all seated again he said, ‘I'm not feeling well, had to refuse all invitations along the way.' ‘Commander Chang has been waiting all evening. Will Mr. Hsu please alight.' ‘There's no time.'‘The train will wait.' ‘I have vicious influenza. I'll call on the Commander another time.' ‘There's a tea party at headquarters to welcome Mr. Hsu.' ‘What tea party, at midnight?' ‘Urgent consultation.' ‘What's so urgent? I've already sent somebody to Mongolia to talk over everything with Mr. Fung.' And the secretary put in, ‘Mr. Fung and Mr. Hsu are like one family.Nothing between them that cannot be arranged.' But the officer signalled with a handkerchief and about a dozen soldiers swarmed up and helped Hsu off the train."

"How is it they still have headquarters near here?"

"They're winding up their affairs along the railroad."

She would never understand how two war lords could share Peking each with a railway to himself, and one allowing the other to clear out in such a leisurely fashion after a fight.

"They shot him at headquarters?"

"No, no, in the fields, pitch dark. A great scandal as it is.The Christian General stamping his feet at the way they bungled his plan."

These people became little funereal dolls in green glaze jackets and yellow pants with worn earthen patches, that they could examine together with their heads on one pillow mat.

"Old Tuan himself touched it off. He'd always played Fung off against us, now he was scared at the upset, worried what Fung was going to do next, cornered in Mongolia, his hundreds of thousands of troops falling apart. So this is what he did next.The news of Old Tuan not coming to office for several days so unnerved him he struck down the old man's righthand man.Left to himself Old Tuan is terrified of him, dared not talk loud even in his own house."

"He'd hear in Mongolia?"

"He has spies everywhere. Everybody is followed. He'd know I'm here tonight."

She was electrified and almost had a warm feeling for the Christian General, the confidante who would not tell on them.

"Wouldn't it be dangerous when you go out of here?"

"No."

"There's not going to be war?"

"I guess there still has to be a show-down."

"Because of the assassination?"

"Well anyway, with Hsu dead his anti-Communist coalition seems to be coming true. Everybody set on toppling Fung."

"He's a Christian and a Communist too."

"He's a fake. Russia pays him sixty thousand a month not counting all the arms he get."

"Then he's not a real Communist, just pretending?"

"That doesn't make him any better. To hear people talk of the red menace, it's hung shui mung sheuh, great flood and predatory animals. It seems to me there are worse things, in a country where everybody's so poor. I suppose to older people it means the end of all standards. Like the Old Marshal,Communists are the one thing he hates."

"There aren't many?"

"We've caught many. Some college students too. A pity they were used by Russia."

"They're killed when they're caught."

"Yes."

She had seen the occasional head strung on the electric pole by the city gate. "Don't look," the amah would say as their car or ricksha passed it. She just got an impression of all the features on the face being pulled up by the roots of the hair like Peking opera actors who wear these tight net kerchieves. A red streak here and there on the cheek and over the brows seemed part of the make-up. She was afraid but as long as nobody knew who it was——The wash amah Li Paw had once said that a man from her village was caught. She told the story when they were all sitting in the courtyard taking the breeze at night, the amahs on low stools, Fourth Miss lying on her back on a cot of sliced bamboo that made a smooth slab as cold as a tombstone. The big black sky pin-pointed with stars bore down on her with all its weight, a tremendous crushing dome that the eye could not endure. She was looking for the Dipper lying down as in an old poem. That summer night itself seemed like a thousand years ago, although it had been right outside here in the same courtyard.

"Selling candy dolls when they caught him and took him to Headquarters. Catching people all over."

"That's the way it is nowadays," said another amah.Everybody spoke in a scratchy whisper when it came to current affairs.

"Scares you to death to hear them tell it. On the day of execution the judge sits behind the aproned table, with two lines of soldiers before him carrying rifles. The four prisoners kneel in a row. Four markers are lying on the table, stuck on bamboo splits. The judge checks the names, picks up his writing brush and runs a red stroke through the name on a marker and tosses it down like a spear. At this all the guards give a big yell. One of them snatches it up and sticks it on the back of a prisoner's collar. One by one all four are marked. Suddenly the judge kicks the table over, turns and runs away. To scare off the shah."

"What's that?" said Fourth Miss. The others tittered at her question.

"Never heard of the return of the shah?" Aunt Hung said."The dead coming back three days after death."

"Shah is the ghost?"

"Or the demon of death itself. I don't really know. Ask Li Paw."

"They say it's a big bird. People hide on the day the shah returns, to keep out of harm's way. But some were curious and sprinkled ashes on the floor. They found bird prints."

"Shah is said to be around whenever there is killing or even a thought of killing," Aunt Hung said. "That's why the judge has to protect himself."

She was sitting up by now glad to be surrounded by familiar figures in the dark.

"The prisoners stripped to the waist are paraded on a mule cart, a column of troops in front, a column behind and two rows on either side. The execution supervisor comes at the end riding a horse, with a red sash over his shoulder like a bridegroom.Two trumpeters clear the road blowing the foreign tune for the charge, da da dee da da dee. And all the soldiers yell, ‘Sha-ah!Kill!' And the crowd shouts after them, ‘Sha-ah!'"

"Tch! These people," said another amah.

Another half snickered. "At the gate house they always say ‘Go see the beheading.' "

"These men! And with so much time to themselves. Not like us."

"Go on, Li Paw, what happens next?" said Fourth Miss,and this also made them laugh.

"What happens? Outside the city gate the four are lined up kneeling. The executioner comes up to the first man, claps him hard on the back of the neck for size, swings the sword once and kicks the head away. He was getting to number four who saw it all. That was the man from my village. He fainted, and woke up lying on the prison floor. He was the execution companion."

"Execution companion," Aunt Hung bit into the words dubiously. "Yes, there's the guest of honor and there're others invited just to keep him company."

"They let him out in a couple of days. They weren't so sure he was a spy."

"Then why didn't they just keep him in prison?" Fourth Miss said.

"And feed him for years? They just wanted to give him a scare. But he died a few months after he got home."

"Fear split his gall and no wonder," Aunt Hung said.

"Hey ya, in times like these," said Li Paw, "It's a good thing that in a big deep house you don't get to hear things."

Somehow she did not feel like telling him the story although it was before his time. It must have been in Wu Panhu's days. Surely they did things differently now? But he was always touchy on the point that nothing really changed.

He flicked cigarette ashes into the incense dish on the floor."I've got a sore throat from whispering."

"Don't let's talk."

"We'll fall asleep."

"Maybe you'd better go now. Before it's light."

He reflected for a moment. "It's all right. I'll wake up before five."

"How do you know you would?"

"I'm used to it in camp."

"If there is war you'll be going." She had tried not to say this.

"I'll have somebody watch out for you."

"Do you ever sleep with your hand here?"

"When I was little. It seemed the safest place to put it,somehow."

"Me too, but the amah always pulled it away so I stopped doing it."

But his hand tucked between her legs seemed all right, like hand in pocket. He woke her with a kiss. It was grey all round.

"No. No, aren't you going?" She cried when he threw a leg over her and slid up.

For a while it was not sore. She was still half dreaming cradled on a rough sea. Their boat had gone out in the eerie uniform greyness. But their stale faces smelled safe, reminder of a night's sleep in bed.

She sat up as he dressed, snatching a feel at his shoulders,back and elbows.

"Don't get up. The man will be around to show me out."

"Don't wear your shoes."

He hesitated a moment. It would embarrass him. "No, it's all right."

She heard his footsteps going down the stone-paved corridor, excruciatingly distinct to the end. Her heart went cold. She knew for certain now that Aunt Hung knew. Still she tidied the bed and picked up the cigarette butts in the tin dish of incense coil. When she washed her face she managed to wash the hidden towel. Soaked in the basin of hot water it smelled faintly of thin rice gruel, also thought of as a source of life.





6



"Things are in great disorder outside," Aunt Hung confided. "Your father went and got up a local security council,same as when the dynasty fell. But what a change of position.The Old Marshal was just one of his officers then. This time he must have given permission or your father wouldn't have gone ahead with it."

Fourth Miss knew what was coming.

"Their eldest is a good boy, considering. He stood pampering well. Although his wife is no match for him, for all the talk about the Third Chu he never did take her into the house. That's something."

Fourth Miss did not flinch at this about the Third Chu. She went on playing with the brass-ring puzzle.

"Actually in a family like theirs, what if there are two wives both just as great? The Old Marshal may not allow it for such a young man, but it may also have to do with the Chus'reputation. If it's a different kind of girl now, from a different sort of family. A girl's reputation is most important. People talk all over town before there is anything to speak of. Take your father, especially now that he's active again. Even if everybody knows of his connection with the Chans he wants at least to seem independent. What if people say he'd do anything to please the Chans? You know your father's temper. Even the Old Marshal won't interfere——after all a man punishing his own children. Not to say me, I'd be held guilty myself. I needn't go into all this, it must have occurred to you."

She herself was ready to die for it but what about Aunt Hung and her amah? They were her hell. Only she was not obsessed with hell. For the moment she was not expected to say anything as long as she bowed her head. Aunt Hung was being extraordinarily mild about it. Even then she could not help hardening and shrinking at the desecration of the thing between him and her merely by mentioning it. Just for other eyes to look on it was to misunderstand.

Aunt Hung said no more. The most important thing at the moment was to stop him from paying them another visit. He did not come again.

It was a point of honor with Fourth Miss not to ask him about the future. Just because he did not mention it did not mean he had forgotten. If he had tried speaking to his father and met with humiliations he would not want to tell her. He had never told her that he knelt for a whole day asking his father's forgiveness after the Manchurian rebellion. She heard this at a relatives' house.

She was never worried the minute she saw him. Everything was as clear as smiling into a mirror. Only when he had gone to war and she had not seen him for months her position began to weigh on her. She wanted to go to his house and see the Fifth Old Concubine and his children, even his wife. They were her only kin. At home she lived among strangers. The Fifth Old Concubine often spoke of him as a child:

"He used to wait by a pond in the courtyard for people in new clothes who seemed well-pleased with themselves. He'd throw a big stone into the water splashing all over them and clap his hands and laugh. People were too embarrassed to say anything except ‘Did the Young Marshal get a fright?' Hey-ya, the naughtiness, and when he got older, the worries and jitters I had, from having to account for him before his father," she said proudly with her puffy eyelids down.

She owed her position largely to him. She had been a small town prostitute once. If he got killed in the war Fourth Miss saw herself go up to her and kneel down crying hugging her knees begging to be taken in. "Alive I am a person in his house;dead I shall be a ghost in his house" was the set piece on such occasions. The maiden went to her lover's funeral dressed in mourning:

"White silk blouse, white silk skirt,

White silk kerchief on black hair girt."

It would be a case of wong mung gua, widowed by looking at the door, when a girl who had lost her fiancé wished to be his widow. What was one more extra woman in that huge house already full of rickety relationships, an old concubine he treated as his mother, an oldish woman he treated as his wife. They wouldn't refuse her? She was too young to know her own mind and would ruin their good name by remarrying eventually. The usual reason. She would be forcibly escorted back to her own house where her father would kill her from shame.

He telephoned just before the Lunar New Year. "It's me. I'm back."

At the sound of his voice she seemed suddenly to lean back against solid wall although she had not moved from where she stood telephone in hand. The car was coming for her.

"Back?" Aunt Hung said.

"Yes."

The trouble Aunt Hung had had in getting a telephone of her own, the suspicions it aroused were justified now that a tryst had been arranged over it. She had a guilty pang at Aunt Hung's silence. As for the amah, the woman stole around nowadays as if pregnant by a ghost, expecting to give birth to some monster any day now.

He had won the battle of the South Pass after a long siege.He got dysentery at the front. Opium was recommended as a quick cure so he got the habit.

"I'll have a doctor end it as soon as I'm rested."

He would not let her see him lie down and smoke,wrapping his lips around the thick mouthpiece to make a slightly tilted snout. It was the vice of his father's generation like singsong girls. Both smelled of old men's spit.

"Did you miss me?" With an arm around her he strained to see her averted face. The question was sexual somehow. "Did you miss me?"

She finally gave a half-hearted stiff-necked nod.

"Do you smell it on my breath?"

"No." It was just a faint odor you associate with old people.She thought of opium as a handicap of the elderly. Still it was fortunate this was all he got from the war.

"The Third Chu is going to be married."

"Really? To whom?"

He muttered a name.

"What does he do?"

"Politician. She could have done better."

They spoke of other things. She suddenly smiled widely at him and burst out with, "I'm so glad."

"I knew you were dying to say that." He half laughed irritably and seemed to resent the comforting arms she put around him.

The next day he telephoned after eight in the evening. "It's me. I want to see you once more this year."

It immediately seemed to her also that it would be a year's separation otherwise. "Too late today."

"Tomorrow is New Year's Eve."

"No, that won't do."

"Say it's a show. The car comes right now."

"All right."

"I'm to go to the show with them," she mumbled to Aunt Hung.

"Tch! With the New Year upon us every family has business of its own. Nobody goes gallivanting around. Your father will speak," she whispered and it sounded frightening, his speaking at all.

After a silence Aunt Hung turned to the amah murmuring,talking fast, "Go up front and say the Marshal's House is taking Fourth Miss to a show."

The amah went.

"Well, hurry up and get ready, in case nothing is said. You can't go out like this."

They really went to see a movie. This started him taking her to shows and dinners where there was dancing. Either he was growing reckless or wanted to force the issue. His doctor always went along to give him injections for the opium cure. She had her hair done up to look as if it was cut, and wore new gowns and high heels kept at their secret house. Everybody was talking about them but she did not mind, not like with Aunt Hung.This was just the crowd's murmur, part of the lights and music. She did not get to hear what the Old Marshal said:

"Who can't he have for a concubine, it has to be my old friend's daughter. What kind of man does that make me?Marriage is out of the question even if he's free. We Chans don't have daughters-in-law that are laid first and married later."

Her father made his first move.

"I spoke to the principal of Peking University," he summoned her to say. "He will let you in as a listening student.You can try to catch up in a year or two."

No reason was given why she alone of the brothers and sisters was to go to school. The assumption was times were changing, college girls were sometimes preferred in marriage.In effect it set her free with the entire school day at her own disposal. If she went to the bad the blame was on modern education, the usual whipping boy. Better let her run wild than have it said that her father gave her away as concubine to the Chans. It eased the unspoken strain between the two houses.If the affair came to nothing she might still marry. Didn't the Third Chu?

Aunt Hung was oddly triumphant, the first time Fourth Miss had ever seen her excited. All these years of neglect and slights were avenged. The man was afraid. Her child had backing that had him cowed. Fourth Miss was her daughter as never before. She allowed herself to worry aloud:

"The times are unsettled. Better make your plans, don't put it off too long. Of course the Old Marshal is in a difficult position because of his feeling for the Tangs. But you don't want to fight over an empty name. Out of regards for your father he can't treat you wrong. The thing is for the Young Marshal to find the right person to speak to his father, someone who could get a word in. It's up to you to make up your mind. Men are never in a hurry," she whispered smiling, leery of calling attention to her knowledge of men as a singsong girl, careful not to hint that he might be as fickle as others. "I'm just reminding you as a bystander. I can see you don't lack decision. People will blame me for not speaking up earlier. For one thing it would be no use. It will just spoil things after being mother and daughter together."

Fourth Miss remained silent. By now it was rude and hurting never to have told her anything. But how was she to tell her that they never spoke of such things?

"So the Third Chu is married. Even got her husband a post. That's modern times for you."

Aunt Hung seemed particularly impressed by her keeping quiet about the Third Miss Chu's marriage. It made her slightly uneasy to have come to be loved for her supposed hardness.

Moon Festival was celebrated as usual in Peking despite the war with Canton, now split into Nanking and Hankow on their way north. He had been away for a long time on the Honan front. Still it was the happiest Moon Festival in her life. She had a schoolmate over, a girl alone in Peking, and walked her back to the dormitory. The family ricksha followed a few paces behind so they could ride any time they got tired. The low grey houses made the streets look still wider. Firecrackers pit-patted faraway with now and then a surprise banging away hollowly close by. All the shops were boarded up, everybody home by now for the reunion feast. The long street led straight up to the slate blue sky with the moon like a wheel of ice. The wind blew her veil into her mouth every time she spoke. She wore the dark red knitted shawl that no college girl was without and swung the box of moon cakes that her friend was to take home with her. They walked on the tram tracks until a tram bore down on them as big as a house clacking its bell that sounded like "I got the best man, the best, the best, the best." It was exactly what she had wanted when she stood right in front of the stage as a child with both hands on the boards and could never get up close enough. Now the cymbals were clapping down on top of her head.

He telephoned the next day. It turned out that he had come back the day before.

"Spent Moon Festival with his wife," Aunt Hung sniggered,indignant.

She just smiled. She herself had had to eat reunion feast with the family.

"Where's Dr. Liang?" she looked around the room when he made her sit down beside him.

"That turtle egg, I threw him out."

"What happened?" She had never seen him so angry.

"Those injections he gave me was a kind of morphine."

"Stop opium with morphine?"

"It's on purpose. To get me into the habit."

"Why, who is he?"

"He turns out to be Yang Yi-peng's man."

She searched her glossary of faceless names. Would that be the Old Marshal's most trusted aide?

"Why?"

"He hates me. It's all out in the open after the Koo Singling incident."

The uprising in Manchuria. He didn't mean he was in it after all?

"That was to get him mainly."

Only partly against his father? The enormity of it instantly put her at sea. What happened to crown princes who rose against their father? Imprisonment, an imperial gift of poisoned wine for which you kowtowed in thanks toward the direction of the palace. Whatever he did it showed he was a man, not just So-and-so's son. Maybe she was also a little sad because he had done what he wouldn't do for her sake.

"But they say that you——" She stopped.

"That I lost my head gambling and whoring, didn't know what was going on in my own battalion?"

"Just that you were careless."

"I'm not such a fool. I played cards with Koo at the battalion club, yes. He's one of our better young officers. We both wanted change, but no chance of that as long as Yang was around. In the end there was no other way. It would have succeeded too but for the Japanese intervention."

"Why are they for the Old Marshal?"

"They don't want the Russians in Manchuria. Koo was allied with the Christian General and he's with the Russians."

She could not imagine him on the Christian General's side against his father. Since then he had defeated the General at South Pass. This year the two had been fighting again in Honan with the General on the side of the south.

Her silence made him add in his father's defence, "Some say the Old Marshal is pro-Japanese. Of course he has to get along with them because Manchuria is right next to Korea. But he always took this attitude: the small things could be talked over, the big things he would put off. Nowadays even the small things he will put off, the big things are definitely not negotiable.He never even carried out their terms for squashing Koo Singling."

"What happened to Koo?"

"He was shot."

For a moment neither of them spoke. He had been spared because he was the son.

"Can't you tell the Old Marshal about being tricked? About the injections."

A slight shake of his head with a half blink dismissed the idea completely. But meanwhile other people would be telling the Old Marshal about his turning into an addict at his age.

"A funny thing the other day, shows the kind of people we have around. Word came that the southern troops violated the first president's grave, so somebody suggested that we desecrate Sun Yatsun's body in return."

"Sun Yatsun is buried here?"

"In West Hill. Luckily Yieh Loh-fu was around that day,an old Nationalist. He persuaded the Old Marshal that these things were not done nowadays and anyway to check first. It turned out to be not the Nationalists but the Christian General's garrisons. Trees were chopped down, buildings robbed but the grave was untouched. So Yieh said to the Old Marshal, since Sun's remains happen to be in Peking we should protect it just to show we are big-hearted. So the Old Marshal ordered a detail of soldiers to the Temple of Green Clouds. Sure enough, in a couple of days several men went to the temple with picks and hoes. When they saw the sentries they loitered and left."

"Who were they?"

"Chi Yung-fu's men."

She gathered that they were from the first president's old troops.

"We're not so far behind. Why, the Nationalists themselves, two years ago when their rightists lost power to the left they came all the way here from Canton, into enemy territory as it was, just to hold a meeting in front of their leader's grave, and was known henceforth as the West Hill Conference Clique. Madame Sun herself——it was her idea to embalm him to last forever."

"He looks alive?" she cried.

"Yes, she got the idea from Lenin, she's pro-Communist.Of course she put it on her husband, said he had said it would be best if the body could be preserved. His followers were rather taken aback. For one thing the costs. In the end Russia gave them the glass coffin as a gift."

"Is she beautiful?"

"Big eyes."

"Which is more beautiful, she or her younger sister?"

"The younger is more lively. Madame Sun is lively too except that her husband took sick right away when they were here. I represented the Old Marshal to welcome him off the ship in Tientsin. It snowed the day we got to Peking. As we drove from the station there was a huge crowd besides the welcoming groups. People on top of all the roofs and trees with the big snow coming down." He confronted her almost indignantly. "The crowd was just as big in Tientsin, only the police chief drove them away to please Premier Tuan."

"Was Sun Yatsun really such a great man?"

"The thing is he represents the idea of a republic. At the revolution most people didn't know what happened. By the thirteenth year of the republic they really got to want it. Like women, when they are first married they don't know what it's all about but later they come to want it. Will you?"

"I don't know. I'm not married." She was sorry the minute it was out of her mouth, as if to remind him.

"So you're not. Getting independent, eh? Say whose man you are."

"Stop it."

"Whose man are you? Say it."

"Stop it. Was Madame Sun's sister with them that time?"

"No, just the two of them. He'd been invited down to form a government. There were high hopes among his followers that he'd be president. He called on the Old Marshal as soon as he arrived. I was with them. After the greetings the Old Marshal stood up right away saying, ‘I Chan am a rough man, so I'd like to say frankly, it's my business to boost men. Today I may boost a man named Tuan. So can I boost a man named Sun. I only object to Communism. If we are to practise Communism I Chan would rather shed blood than go red.' This little speech when it got to Tuan's ears made him more suspicious than ever.Actually the talk only lasted half an hour. Sun of course denied he was pro-Communist. But there was Tuan, already installed.Sun went back to his hotel and conferred with his aides until after midnight. That same night he got ill."

"That's how he died!"

"A few months later. All this time Old Tuan wouldn't see him and never went to the funeral. The excuse was his legs were so swollen he could not get into his shoes. The head of a country and no shoes to wear!"

"At least he's gone away."

"He's having a good laugh on us. The government a vacuum after he stepped down. The regency cabinet with all our allies represented couldn't last of course. After the cabinet resigned nobody else would accept the posts. The Old Marshal was angry. ‘Then just get anyone,' he said. Government employees have not been paid for six months. Ex-emperor Pu Yi still gets thirty thousand a month, from us personally. This respect for all higher-ups is all that's left of our king and country.Anyway all the people ever ask for is ‘a Honan man to rule Honan' and ‘a Shantung man to rule Shantung.' If they must be misruled they'd rather have one of themselves do it. As far as possible we let them have it. Any local person with enough armed men to overrun the area, gets from us a title or a post."

It did not sound good. "Is the war going to get here?"

"There's no telling about wars. As far as strength goes we have no fears. Last year Fung's troops did exceptionally good trench work at South Pass. But our cannons were so fierce,after several days of concentrated firing even the earth crust was turned over. Canton belonged to the school of revolutionaries with home-made bombs. Now that they have Russian arms and advisors naturally our allies are no match for them. Like Wu Pan-hu, when news came that his front was collapsing he sent the Big Sword Corps to chop down deserters. His soldiers had heard the Big Swords were coming and took shots at them through the train windows. The swordsmen never dared get off the train."

"What's the use of these allies?"

"Yes, everybody for himself. Fang of the southeast just sat still watching Wu get hit when he could have easily cut off the southern supply lines. When he was defeated in turn he bribed Long Legs to give him safe conduct to Mukden so he could come beg for help in person, traveling incognito in civilian clothes because he was a disgrace to the uniform. Seeing how he humbled himself the Old Marshal sent Long Legs to help him get back his five provinces." She had heard of their General Long Legs. "The Old Marshal is like that. As long as a man is your equal, even if he has been an enemy, always be generous and save him some face. The worst offence is to move against your superior. That's how Long Legs ganged with Fang managed to flatter the Old Marshal into heading the government himself.Subordinates don't count, but the support of your peers…"

"Has he become President?" she faltered.

"No, not President or Premier, just Grand Marshal. The Old Marshal is modest that way. All his life he has preferred to stay in the wings. This is already unlike him."

He stopped abruptly. She had also heard the saying,"Change and die." It was a bad sign when older people change their ways.

"The south is a mess too," she said.

"They have their kit of tools."

"They're Communists?"

"Not any more. Nanking has hitched a thread on England and America and thrown over Russia. Now Russia is looking to us to stop the south. The Old Marshal doesn't care, he had the Soviet Embassy searched anyway and published all the secret documents, proofs of their subversions. They're pushing hard here. It did look as though they had China going Communist."

"In the south?"

"Everywhere the southern troops went. Mass trials of landlords. Dividing up the land. Cutting men's gowns short, the long gown is upper class. Also attacking churches and missions like the Boxers all over again. Foreigners do get themselves hated because the government kowtows to them and takes their part, then as now. A missionary is a power in the countryside.It's always popular to be against foreigners, and Communism sneaks in under cover. The people have their grievances and will have it out any way you let them. But the Communists are being purged, they lasted no longer than the Boxers."

"Is Madame Sun's sister married now?"

He smiled. "I don't know, haven't heard."

"How old is she?"

"About my age."

"She's not twenty-seven already?"

"I don't know, she herself didn't say. Foreignized women don't tell their age."

"She can't be not marrying ever?"

"There's no telling about those Christians."

"It's not because of you?"

"No, no."

"She must have liked you."

"She was looking for a ruler of China and I stood a chance of inheriting the position."

"You make her sound so hard."

"It's only natural that she should want to emulate her sister."

"Is she very beautiful?"

"No."

"No, tell the truth."

"There is a wonderful freshness that comes with going to school abroad. And she didn't come back all masculine and insufferable."

"Lucky the Old Marshal wouldn't let you get a divorce."

"It never came to that."

"Didn't you want to marry her?"

"If I did it had to do with the whole picture. A man may also want to marry into a certain house, like a lighted doorway everybody turns to——something you don't happen to have. After that crowd to see Sun Yatsun in the snow, any relations I can have with a man like that I won't mind having."

"But you have to like the girl."

"That of course. I used to get those ideas, not like now, no more stray thoughts."

"Did the Old Marshal know?"

"He took it as a joke. His son marrying the daughter of a fife-and-drummer! That's what they call her father. He used to play a harmonium doing missionary work near Shanghai."

The famous debutante was now a cozy figure in her own past. "I wonder why she never married."

"It may be difficult for her too. At her age, even a couple of years back all the men she met would be married."

He pulled the bell rope. The new doctor was fetched from another courtyard to give him the same injection as the other doctor had been giving him.

He was still pent up. "Let's go to West Hill."

"So late. The city gate will be closed."

"It will open for us."

It was growing dark as they got into the car with the doctor.They could hear from afar the gong at the city gate working itself up to a long frantic tzong-tzong-tzong-tzong-tzong-tzong,sounding an enemy attack or fire or flood, the end of the world.The car got round the mule carts that had just managed to squeeze in. One of the guards jumped off the running board and ran ahead shouting. The gates swung open again and they drove through the tunnel in the iron-grey wall standing on black dust.

The long ride really seemed to get them away. But at West Hill Hotel they did not go into the dining room in case there was somebody they knew. They stood around the goldfish pond while Dr. Li went in to order soft drinks. She was wearing black glasses and a veil.

"You look like a war lord's concubine meeting a female impersonator in secret," he said.

It was not so romantic though. They ate dinner in their suite upstairs with the doctor. They spoke of places to see in the morning before going back, so it was settled that they would stay the night. She could say she was at a schoolmate's house but she wondered if she was going too far.

It was unnaturally silent in the country and the westernstyle hotel was dead quiet. Peking seemed a long way off with its vigilant drum and bell and city murmurs. Staying out all night,and in a hotel, she was so far out of bounds that she was no longer under the protection of the law. She felt ridiculously like a captive bride brought to a new village, finally under his power. Oddly enough he also looked embarrassed taking off his clothes not looking at her, smiling slightly, his eyes very bright. To escape the feeling of strangeness she quickly went to bed and under cover and slipped into his arms as soon as he got in. But he turned back the blanket and took his time sorting her out in the lamplight.

"What are you doing?"

An animal was feeding on her. She saw his bent head enlarged by perspective between her reared thighs and felt his hair brushing against her with a frenzy of terror. The flicks of his kisses furled petal-like in and around the bud of her inner self,intolerably. The resignation of the fallen prey alternated in her with some unformed yearning to get away somehow or devour in turn, be packed full of him. She tried to get up several times.At last it was him again smiling down at her, a little flushed. She took him almost gasping with relief, catching sips of a half glass of wine rocking on board ship. He filled her slowly with deep plunges and suddenly swung sideways like a fish swishing its tail,watching her face half laughing. He stopped to look and fondle.

"Bigger, aren't they? Haven't they grown?"

But they hardly talked all night, for a change.





7



Her father called her into his study and spoke in his deepest voice with an official ring.

"The political situation is tense. The Old Marshal is sending the family back to Mukden. Leaving tonight. He has sent for you. Perhaps it's best in times like these——saves worries on both sides. Out of his friendship for me he is sure to treat you like a daughter. On your part however you have to learn to behave from now on. It's up to you yourself now. Tell your Aunt Hung to pack for you but there's no need to bring many things or people. Whatever you want can always be sent for later. Just dress warmly, it's cold outside the Pass. When the times are more settled you can come back and your Aunt Hung can also go and see you."

She had a wonderful trip. The Chans on their special train received her as a niece coming for a long visit. The Young Marshal's wife took her on as her special charge. She was to call her Big Sister from now on instead of Big Sister-in-law. Outside the Pass was China's Arctic. Sad princesses and palace beauties had been sent out there to marry the kings of the Huns. She was agreeably surprised by the heaving brown mountains and the grey sash of the Great Wall draped across them, buckled with twin square citadels. The scene never changed in the window, a picture screen being busily folded away, clackety-clack, clacketyclack, and still no end to it.

At the first stop next morning she looked out at a box car of soldiers halted on the next line. The soldiers were standing as if half out of the car. A peasant boy red-cheeked from the cold was eating his breakfast of fritter and bun. His thin face and neck came out of the padded uniform like the end of the fritter stick stuffed into the big sesame bun. They were talking and laughing a few feet away, yet soundless. She stared with a pleasant shiver around the heart, what she later thought was presentiment. The day after she got to Mukden the Old Marshal coming back the same way was assassinated by a mine. It was dangerous for the Young Marshal to come back but he managed it on troop trains dressed as a common soldier, with forced marches between rides.

When he turned up in the midst of the confusion and funeral preparations it was as if he had dropped down from heaven. He cried when he heard his father's last words were,"Has Little Six come back?" He was the sixth son of the clan.

He knew she was here. The aide stationed behind to take her out of the Pass in case of emergency had telegraphed him at the front.

"Father thought of us when he had so many things on his mind," he said to her.

"They say the Japanese did it," she said.

"Probably." His eyes shone curiously in the shadow of the army cap which he kept on even at night to hide the shaved head, part of the disguise.

To her it was a fitting end to their story, his coming back after such hardships. And they lived happily ever after. There was some truth in this ending to fairy tales which generally deal with young people and early success. What you get at that impressionable age stays with you. It was the only time when anyone can build things larger than life and in its own way lasting as long. At seventeen she had achieved the impossible,all that she had ever wanted. If there is a certain smugness in all young wives in addition to the reputed serenity of Oriental women, she was still more so, being younger and happier than any that she knew of. An unshakable placidity entered her soul like a second spine. Nothing that really mattered could happen to her any more.

"First we heard the Old Marshal had left for Mukden," he told her, "it looked as if we were retreating. We were fooling with a Ouija tray, it was a quiet night, so we thought to ask about the war. It wrote on the sand, ‘The Grand Marshal is going home.' I was laughing, ‘What wonderful fortune-tellers we are.Who doesn't know the Grand Marshal is going home?' That same night we got the telegram."

The train was wrecked on the railway bridge at the Fort of the Imperial Aunt.

He evidently found comfort in the story. If the supernatural exists in any way then maybe his father was still near. He was beset on all sides by the mourners sent by friends and foes alike.The Christian General, the Nationalists, the Japanese, the "king of Shansi" all had representatives at the funeral to pressure him into agreements, alliances, recognitions. He closed the Pass to General Long Legs and left him to be mopped up. He stopped the subsidies to Japanese personnel in Manchuria and sent for W. F. Ronald, known as the man to have with you in a pinch.

"They say they shot two people here," her old amah whispered to her.

"Where?"

"Over in the office building."

One was Yang, she heard later, the one who had got him into the morphine habit. In the evening he came in to change.

"Oh, get me the dollar in the trousers pocket."

He liked to play with the coin and had it gold-plated. He hefted it in his hand smiling.

"Last night I couldn't make up my mind about Yang and Ho so I tossed the dollar."

"No!" she said dismayed.

"People have been telling me they're unstable." The dread words "revolt" and "coup" were seldom said outright. "But you can't tell, people are jealous, and my differences with Yang are well-known. Now is not the time to remember grudges. So finally I said to myself, head for arrest, tails for execution. Three times to make sure."

"All tails?"

"All three times. I thought maybe this coin is lighter on one side. Try three more times, head for execution. And three times all head."

She shrank from the first president's round moustachioed face on the proffered coin. She did not believe in superstitions but she believed in him. He put it out of sight in his pocket quickly.

"I feel bad because of the Old Marshal."

"He'll understand now," she said.

"After a single interview with Yang, just back from studying from Japan, he had him start the munitions plant. That's how the Old Marshal hired people, whether relatives or strangers."His voice rose, thinned from distention so that she looked at him. His father could tell about people, yet had never relied on him so he must be no good. She did not figure that out at first,just thought confusedly of all the other men around his father that he disapproved of, like General Long Legs.

"That time we campaigned in the south I shared a room with Long Legs with just a curtain in between," he had said. "He called in three women and kept asking me, Have one? I just pulled the blanket over my head and pretended I was asleep."

Yet when they got to Shanghai he had played dominoes with Long Legs and the other officers in a hotel room for over a week, night and day, with singsong girls trooping in and out getting bonuses. He beat them at their own games and preferred women that were out of their reach.

"There was the furor about the virgin that Long Legs had booked from a Shanghai singsong house, before leaving for the front. A virgin for good luck, like sacrificing to the flag. It turned out that he did not ‘see red', so he wanted the madam's blood instead. Actually who dares cheat him? The girl must have had a secret lover and didn't dare tell the madam."

Still Long Legs was a man of the times like the Old Marshal while he himself was just the son, still untried after many battles.It was always seen to that he did not lose, or at least not lose face.

"I asked Yang and Ho about the plant and the railway.They had to go and look up the answers. This time I summoned them here and they were still evasive. I walked out of the room.A minute later the door opened and several officers shot them down," he whispered with a scared smile. "Ronald just heard.He must be thinking he's got into a robbers' den."

"Did you tell him why?"

"I told him about the head and tails too."

"No. What would people think?"

"He must have had a shock already seeing me so changed from the Peking days." He looked at himself in the mirror.

"You're thin. You haven't got over the trip back."

She readily saw his addiction as the rest of the household did, as an ailment that was a nuisance, though sometimes whispered about behind his back as an Achilles' heel. All he needed was the time to take the cure once the crisis of his father's death was over. Now the pressure was too great.

"Like those Peking opera singers," he said, "all the betterknown ones have to take opium to keep up the strenuous life."

"And to appease their women admirers," one of his friends said slyly.

He laughed. "They do have this problem."

There was this group of young men who used to ride with him, the sons of officers or big landowners. He invited them to hunting parties at the new villa he built at the North Graves where the Manchu emperors were buried. Fourth Miss loved the North Graves, massive architecture in the Samarkand style that the Manchus had toned down, here at its simplest in a forest of tall pines. The villa was just a group of little red brick houses. She heard there were girls at those parties. It was a rumor because of his bad reputation, he said. Another time it was some of the men's wives dropping in for the gambling after the hunt. So-and-so's wife "keeps a close watch." They both thought it was very funny.

She was still called Fourth Miss in the house but he was now known as having two wives. Big Sister was glad of her narrow escape. If Fourth Miss was not with them already he would want a divorce now that his father was dead. As it was there was no question of raising the issue in a time like this. The three years' mourning also ruled out any celebrations, a thorny point originally. A simple feast was too much like taking a concubine. "Wait and see what the Old Marshal says," the Fifth Old Concubine had said. Now the problem was solved on all sides. A few quiet kowtows within the family sufficed. Her status was equal but not legal.

The three of them lived in the same courtyard, for convenience's sake Big Sister said, so he could get his clothes and things at once instead of sending for them. It was the timehonored stipulation of wives who did not want to be left out of the picture. She generally got her way. The other two were too content to make an issue of anything. The house was a copy of the Peking palace on a small scale. Across a wall and rock garden stood the three-storeyed office building with wood curlicues and a calligraphic board in the Old Marshal's own handwriting, "Heaven's law is men's heart." Another motto over the garden gate: "Walk the straight and narrow." They were surrounded by a flock of houses for the staff and guards, the Side Arms Company and Automobile Corps.

"When the new house is ready we'll ask Ronald to stay with us," he said. "Now he's more comfortable in the hotel."

"Has he got a family?" she said.

"He was married once."

"In America?"

"No, he's never been back all these years. They met in China. She's from his home state. He must have been homesick. But she left him because he was too engrossed in China."

She laughed. "Only foreign women would mind a thing like that."

"At least that's the story. But he's known as a regular Confucius. Secretary Sung was comparing him to Confucius traveling through all the kingdoms looking for a ruler that would practise his teachings. To keep him from going south last year Old Chow specially created the Bureau of Statistics for him so he could collect figures to his heart's content. Americans believe in them. He got a thousand a month to run it. Old Chow said,‘That fool Ronald, the thousand was for him, I never expected him to hire a staff and pay out salaries.' What's more he paid them out of his own pocket after Peking fell. Nanking promised him to keep the bureau going but never paid him back in the end."

She loved to hear them talk. It gave her a feeling she had never had before, of sitting in a high pavilion open to the sun and wind looking clear across the plains to the Yellow River.It was all there before her even though muddied by all the unfamiliar proper names made still more confusing by Ronald's mispronunciations. He also said some incredible things, like he himself had paid for demonstrators against the Twenty-one Demands. In her year at college she had learned that the protest march was a milestone in the students' movement and national awakening. But she believed him, and at the same time felt a little dubious and affronted by the way everybody was made out to be such fools, Sun Yatsun for instance:

"A reporter asked, ‘Are you a socialist, Dr. Sun?' He turned to me saying, ‘Am I?' I said, ‘You're everything a Nationalist has to be.' "

"So the good doctor is finally reburied in style, beside the Ming emperors," the Young Marshal said.

"In the most grandiose sugar cake. Over ten thousand people petitioned against having their houses torn down to build the highway across town just to get the casket to the mountain."

"How is it the body is not on display after all the trouble of preserving it?"

"They don't want to be copycat to Lenin now that they broke with the Communists."

"What do you think of the new brother-in-law and successor? He's got the ancestral tablet in both hands now."

She picked up her ears. That was the man who married his old love.

"I don't really know him, except through his brothers-inlaw."

"Theirs is government by brothers-in-law."

"Was he really legally divorced?" The one time she spoke up she modestly addressed her question to the Young Marshal.They left her out of the conversation in the Oriental way with ladies.

"Yes," Ronald answered.

"Country wives are easy to handle," said the Young Marshal.

"In a case like this you can't just tuck a wife away in the country. And he'd gone as far as to turn Christian."

"What's this about his son denouncing him?"

"That's the son he sent to Russia in his Russian period.The Russians always have sons denouncing their fathers. The boy is a Youth Pioneer. A Chinese Communist underground publication printed his open letter to his mother, accusing his father of betraying the revolution."

"And kicking his mother downstairs for asking him not to go to singsong houses," the Young Marshal chortled.

"That was when he was in business in Shanghai."

"Was that the wife he divorced?" she asked. She had seen the engagement photograph of Miss Soo-hoo and him, she round-shouldered in ruffled chiffon, with smiling eyes on a rather large soft face under marcelled waves, he standing behind her in uniform, tall, thin and clean-cut. Did she love him? She got what she was looking for, the ruler of China. And she was his own choice instead of the wife his family had foisted on him.There was a great difference there.

"Is it true he made a million on the stock exchange?"

"He lost it in the crash."

"Enough to make a man join the revolution."

"He'd joined early, in army school. But after the Nationalist defeat in Shanghai many went underground, some worked on the Exchange and met in singsong houses. He seemed to have merged into the scene rather well, stayed around for ten years."

"He's good at about-facing."

"He rode a dangerous current to the top. Trouble is nothing has changed. All the old forces gathering, more civil wars. Meanwhile Nanking doesn't do a thing that makes any difference. I stayed long enough to see they're time-wasters.Now I call them Nationa-lusts."

"Yes, same old China. If only we can kill off several million people. Then maybe we can get something done."

"That's the Bolshevik method."

"As long as it works."

"I don't know about that. The Great Experiment has been on for nearly ten years now and they're still famished. Militarily Russia is the one country nobody is afraid of."

"Here at least it got us back the foreign settlements in Hankow."

"They're the least of your worries. Get enough peace and order in the rest of the country and you'll attract as much investment. You don't even use the same money in all the provinces."

"If only we can hand over the country to some reliable foreign power for twenty-five years."

"Unfortunately that can't be arranged."

"Most of my countrymen will be angry at me for saying this,but they haven't tried to get things done, or never had a chance to try."

"I can see how you got known as a radical."

"Only because I'm my father's son and could speak more freely."

"I'm glad you're not of the prevailing view blaming everything on foreigners and unequal treaties. Actually China needs more foreign capital, more boards of control, not less.I say this although I fought the Consortium twice just as a newspaperman." He launched into the story of how he had tricked them out of the land tax marked down as security.

"Ronald talks a lot but he knows how to keep his mouth shut," he told her more than a year later. "He knew about Yang and Ho. They'd sent somebody to see him in Shanghai offering him two thousand pounds to go to London and negotiate a fifteen million pound loan to develop Manchuria. He said it couldn't be done. When he first came here he spoke to those two about it but they quickly changed the subject. He thought that was odd and suspected they wanted the money for a coup.It would have meant a lot to me if he'd told me this after they were executed. But he said nothing. That was real character. No matter who comes to him for advice it's confidential."

"Then how did you get to know?"

"He just mentioned it, now that we really know each other."

Ronald persuaded him to get rid of the drug habit and took charge of his diet, introducing some of his own favorite health foods. He could argue for hours about the relative merits of agar-agar and bran. He made him cut out the parties, played golf and swam and fished with him, took him on long hikes to tire him out completely. There were worries about assassination on country lanes. The Japanese Kwantung Army officers had been yelling around ever since he recognized Nanking as the central government, "Punish Chan Shu-tan, he betrayed us."

She was happy to see the two go off like boy scouts. But his health got so bad the doctor advised complete rest and seclusion for at least a month.

"The rumors will have me dead," he said at once. "There will be uprisings, an opening for the Japanese."

He went back to the drug. "I'll be the first to go for the cure when we have the hospital for it."

There were no funds for the hospital after building the university and a modern port. Settlers poured in from north and central China where there had been wars. The latest was the biggest yet, both sides had half a million men in the field.Three hundred thousand died. Both Nanking and the Christian General and his ally "the king of Shansi" pressed the Young Marshal to join them. He took the stand against civil wars but they kept at him.

She heard Ronald say at lunch, strangely upset, "So far nobody has touched it. The one thing that represents Chinese unity as a nation."

"The Chinese just see it as part of the unequal treaties," he said.

"If they seized the Customs on the pretext of customs autonomy, why install an Englishman as commissioner?Exchange one Englishman for another, that's what I don't understand."

"Old Yin has been too cooped up in Shansi. No experience in foreign affairs."

"And to have Gravesend-Kemp of all people."

"He's unscrupulous enough. And a well-known writer."

"That makes it all right for him to do anything out here among the comic opera war lords. It's fun, and there may be a book in it."

They went to play golf. The next she heard was, "We're going in."

She thought it was agreed that he should stay out as long as possible.

"Only on condition that the Nationalists clean house and open up the government," Ronald had said. "And not just promises."

She did not want him to go to war and so was familiar with all the arguments against it——leaving Manchuria half empty,Japan would move in. Manchuria was more industrialized than any other part of China. The Nationalist representative had been all agog when he was taken over the munitions plant and it took three hours to drive him over the lot. The country was so big and potentially rich it would be more profitable to develop it than join in civil wars. In the final accounting the Old Marshal's wars had cost more than he got out of it.

"So you have your isolationists too," Ronald had said.

"Why does Ronald hate that Englishman so much?" she asked.

"Oh, Gravesend-Kemp. He's the kind of foreigner in China who's out for all he can get, and Ronald himself has always been scrupulous about money."

"They've known each other a long time?" Perhaps wives are prone to suspect their husband's best friend of using him.She felt uneasy and guilty.

"In Peking. Gravesend-Kemp wrote many books on China,said to be brilliant. Ronald also writes."

" ‘Literary men are contemptuous of each other; it has been so since ancient times,' "she quoted laughing.

"And when was that said?"

"I don't know. About fifteen hundred years ago."

The coming test hung heavy over them. He was to enter what the newspapers called the Great War of the Central Plains and the Battle over the Nation. Japan was behind the other side.She never wanted to put him to any tests because they were unfair. The old saying was Do not judge a hero by success or defeat.

He went inside the Pass and sent for her as promised, along with Big Sister, as soon as he had found a house in Peking,avoiding the Marshal's House and any identification with the old regime. This time the Manchurians had come as the army of peace. The war was over the minute he appeared over the border.

His favorite story of the campaign was about GravesendKemp.

"He wrote me at headquarters. Offered me two million in cash and a million a month if I would keep the Customs independent. I asked him to come and see me.

" ‘Why did you do that?' Ronald said.

" ‘I want to see an Englishman lose face.'

" ‘Be careful. People will take it that you just didn't come to terms.'

" ‘You'll be there as witness.'

" ‘I don't know. He'd assume that you're interested. If you do work out something you'd have gained a friend and lost another. Because I'll have to leave you.' "

Ronald had threatened this before. He had happened to run into an old acquaintance in Mukden, an English baronet in the Indian civil service and then in the legation.

"What are you doing here?" Ronald asked.

"The Young Marshal asked me to be his advisor."

The Young Marshal announced at dinner at home, "Ronald threw down the gauze hat," the hat of office. "Jealous as a woman."

"Jealous as a woman indeed," Big Sister said. "Put out your hand and feel your own conscience."

"So Gravesend-Kemp came to headquarters. ‘You simply must reappoint me,' he said.

"I said Why?

" ‘Because of the money we can make together.'

" ‘By robbing the Customs.'

" ‘I wouldn't know what to do if you won't help me.'" ‘Ask Yin Shih-san.'

" ‘He's run away.'

" ‘Then you run away.'

" ‘Will you give me a week?'

" ‘Why?'

" ‘I have to take care of my staff.'

" ‘Give you a week to rob the Customs! I'll give you one day to hand it back to the proper authorities.'

"He hurried off. Two days later one of his employees shot him for the loot. Heaven knows it's difficult for a foreigner to get himself killed in China. Probably the first civilian since the Boxers. And for once England didn't send gunboats."

In those first hazy days of incredulous triumph the story was the one thing that made it real for her. Gravesend-Kemp was practically the only casualty of the war. The three hundred thousand anonymous dead was before he got in. Yin of Shansi still had the province to himself after temporary asylum in Dairen. The Christian General had retired with his wife and choice troops up a scenic mountain in Shantung. Nanking was satisfied to leave it at that. Keeping their names on the wanted list throughout the country was enough punishment. But for the death of the Englishman it was as baffling and dreamlike as a leaky pillow fight, punching into clouds of fluff. She got the impression that the interview at headquarters was the first high point of his life. He had finally proved himself and before Ronald who was the world.

"One odd thing," Ronald said, "in his first book you can see what impressed him most in the Boxers Rebellion was the looting. To think he'd die of it after thirty years."

" ‘Peking Indiscreet'," she said.

"Yes. It's a good first-hand account. You can see him drooling."

"He also has a short story called ‘Loot'."

"Oh? What's it about?"

"It's the same story."

"The British and Indians and Cossacks looting the palace?"

"Yes, he rewrote that into a short story eight years later."

"I'll be damned."

"I never knew you read him," the Young Marshal said happily.

"I got curious. You were talking about him."

He liked to show her off to Ronald but she generally kept quiet. Ronald was careful with her and was correct in paying her less attention than if she was an unmarried girl of the house. He loved to tease young girls, English-speaking ones perforce. But when a man had two wives it was safer to assume that they were old-fashioned, no matter how modern they seemed.

"He justified it all along," Ronald said. "They were Drake's pirates looting from the looters. The Manchu themselves had got it from the Ming emperors. As to the foreign-manned customs, theirs is the fruit of imperialist exploitation, although this may sound too Bolshie for him."

"So he was just doing what he had always believed in," the Young Marshal said.

"Writers are not supposed to. Barking dogs you know."

He was made Deputy Commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of China and flew to Nanking with Ronald to attend the National Assembly. Rumors said he would never come back.Nanking would hold him or his father's old officers would take over Manchuria. He came back in two months. He had put an end to the war lords' era. The next time his wives went with him in their private plane. It was the twentieth century at last, thirty years late and he with two wives but he got in. China was in.

